--- PAGE 1 ---
 
1 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate 
 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Transmission System  
 
COMMENTS OF THE AMERICAN COUNCIL ON RENEWABLE ENERGY 
The American Council on Renewable Energy (“ACORE”) submits these comments in 
response to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (“FERC” or “Commission”) October 
27 Notice Inviting Comments and November 7 Notice Granting Extension of Time in the above-
captioned docket.  
I. 
INTRODUCTION  
ACORE is a national nonprofit organization that unites finance, policy and technology to 
accelerate the transition to a clean energy economy. Our membership includes investors, 
developers, manufacturers, utilities, corporate buyers, and professional services firms. The 
issuance of the Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) is an important step, and 
ACORE supports the initiation of a new Commission rulemaking on the interconnection of large 
loads. As the Commission approaches the challenges of interconnecting large loads to the grid, 
we urge the Commission to avoid focusing solely on interconnection and instead take steps to 
expand and modernize the transmission system to achieve the greatest cost savings and reliability 
benefits.  
Given the complexity and importance of these issues, ACORE recommends that if the 
Commission were to establish such a rulemaking, it does so with a reasonable timeline that 
allows for a sufficient evidentiary record and the development of informed and comprehensive 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
2 
proposed and final rules, rather than seeking to issue a final rule by April 30, 2026 as requested 
in the ANOPR. 
II. 
Large Loads will Require a Modernized and Expanded Grid 
Regardless of the co-location of adjacent or behind-the-meter resources, a significant 
amount of the demand from these large loads will need to be served by the bulk power system.1  
Through rulemakings, guidance, and technical conferences, the Commission should therefore 
address needed improvements to the full ecosystem of the grid, especially the expansion of 
interregional higher-voltage transmission and greater deployment of advanced transmission 
technologies.  
An expansion of transmission, especially long-range and high-voltage lines, is well 
demonstrated to achieve cost savings. For example, the Southwest Power Pool’s Board of 
Directors has just approved a transmission plan for high-voltage lines that has benefits ranging 
from $12 to $18 for every dollar spent.2   
This ANOPR was released two days after the Commission’s annual Reliability Technical 
Conference, where the challenge of load growth was paramount in the discussion. Interregional 
transmission itself provides much needed capacity value to serve this increasing demand. For 
example, Invenergy Transmission LLC’s testimony reported that the Grain Belt Express 
 
1 See for example, Eric G. Gimon, Dodging the Firm Fixation for Data Centers and The Grid, Energy 
Innovation (Nov. 2025), stating at 19 that “a grid connection remains both a sink for surplus and an 
important backup option; most on-site power is not fully independent and large loads will still want 
interconnection to the bulk power system.” Available at: https://energyinnovation.org/report/dodging-the-
firm-fixation-for-data-centers-and-the-grid/  
2 SPP board advances regional transmission plan to keep pace with accelerating growth and ensure grid 
reliability (Nov. 4, 2025), available at: https://spp.org/news-list/spp-board-advances-regional-
transmission-plan-to-keep-pace-with-accelerating-growth-and-ensure-grid-reliability/   

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
3 
“provides about 1 GW of RA value to MISO and about 500 MW of RA value to SPP. This value 
comes from connecting areas with non-coincident peak loads, which reduces the planning 
reserve margin needed to maintain RA as regions can share resources without needing to build 
their own capacity.”3 
Moreover, the testimony of American Electric Power Service Corporation (“AEP”) at the 
technical conference on the role of Extra High Voltage (“EHV”) transmission explained that: 
“The accelerating demands of AI and electrification require significantly more generation and 
transmission capacity than current planning frameworks anticipate. Importantly, generation is 
only part of the story….EHV transmission, such as 765 kV, can play a critical role in mitigating 
generation shortages by enabling access to remote generating resources and enhancing power 
delivery.”4  
One important step, among others, would be for the Commission to work with DOE and 
the National Laboratories to establish best practices and common methodologies for the 
forecasting of large loads and their power needs that can be incorporated into the long-term 
transmission planning process. ACORE also urges the Commission to move forward on a 
proceeding on the planning for interregional transmission. 
Essential to cost-effectively meeting the large load needs is an accelerated deployment of 
Grid Enhancing Technologies and High-Performance Conductors. The White House AI Action 
Plan correctly highlighted the need for “advanced grid management technologies and upgrades to 
 
3 Statement of Matt Holz, Invenergy Transmission LLC at 5, Docket No. AD25-8-000 (Oct. 2025). 
4 Statement of Carlos Casablanca, American Electric Power Service Corporation at 7-8 Docket No. 
AD25-8-000 (Oct. 2025). 
 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
4 
power lines that can increase the amount of electricity transmitted along existing routes.”5 As an 
analysis by the Brattle Group demonstrated, these technologies provide all of the seven 
transmission benefits that the Commission identified in Order No. 1920, along with the 
additional benefits of lower costs, faster installation, complementarity, portability, and 
reversibility.6 As the transmission providers move forward with Order No. 1920 compliance and 
in particular, the development of a process for selecting transmission to meet the identified 
needs, a full inclusion of these advanced transmission technologies and their benefits will be 
essential. 
III. 
The Interconnection Needs of Both Large Loads and Generation Should be 
Integrated with Transmission Planning 
An essential component of improving the interconnection of large loads will be to fully 
integrate interconnection-driven needs into longer-term transmission planning. At the Reliability 
Technical Conference, AEP also noted that: “Integrated planning frameworks that account for the 
long-term interaction between transmission needs, generation availability, and load behaviors 
could produce more effective system solutions.”7 A key lesson from the history of the generator 
interconnection process is that “most transmission providers do not actively integrate 
interconnection studies with long-term, proactive transmission planning, instead relying on an 
 
5 America’s AI Action Plan, The White House Office of Science & Technology Policy (July 2025) at 15, 
available at: https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Americas-AI-Action-Plan.pdf  
6 T. Bruce Tsuchida, Linquan Bai, S. Ziyi Tang, and Jay Caspary, Incorporating GETs and HPCs into 
Transmission Planning Under FERC Order 1920, The Brattle Group and Grid Strategies, LLC, prepared 
for the American Council on Renewable Energy (April 2025), available at: 
https://acore.org/resources/incorporating-gets-and-hpcs-into-transmission-planning-under-ferc-order-
1920/  
7 Casablanca, at 7-8. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
5 
inefficient, piecemeal approach to expanding the grid.”8 The benefits of an integrated approach 
and the resulting consumer savings were discussed extensively in Panel 1 on the first day of the 
Commission’s September 2024 “Innovations and Efficiencies in Generator Interconnection 
Workshop.”9 Therefore, as part of this and related proceedings, the Commission should work 
with the transmission planning regions on improved coordination of transmission planning with 
the transmission needs created by the interconnection of both generation large loads.  
IV.  
The Commission Can Establish Beneficial Rules for Large Load Interconnection 
A recent whitepaper from the Nicholas Institute for Energy, Environment & 
Sustainability pointed out that “load interconnection processes generally do not currently follow 
a formal interconnection queue process written into tariffs,” and that “the FERC rulemaking 
would likely first need to create rules around the queuing of load interconnections and then 
provide for flexible loads to be expedited within that process.”10 The Commission therefore has 
an opportunity at this time to establish beneficial rules for the interconnection of large loads, 
while avoiding an overly burdensome or standardized large load interconnection processes. With 
 
8 Rob Gramlich, John D. Wilson, Richard Seide, Yorgos Raskovic, J. Michael Hagerty, Joe DeLosa III, 
Johannes Pfeifenberger, Unlocking America’s Energy - How to Efficiently Connect New Generation to the 
Grid (August 2024), Grid Strategies LLC & The Brattle Group, available at: 
https://gridstrategiesllc.com/wp-content/uploads/Exec-Sum-and-Report-Unlocking-Americas-Energy-
How-to-Efficiently-Connect-New-Generation-to-the-Grid.pdf.  
9 See for example, Pre-Workshop Comments of John Hagerty, The Brattle Group, at 22, Pre-Workshop 
Comments of the R Street Institute at 2; Comments of David Mindham, EDP Renewables North America 
LLC at 2; Comments of Arash Ghodsian, Invenergy Transmission LLC at 2, Docket No. AD24-9-000 
(Sep. 2024). 
10  Walsh, S., M. Farmer, A. Zevin, K. Smaczniak, G. Daly, N. Lobel, A. Clements, Y. Guo, and T. Profeta. 
2025. How DOE’s Proposed Large Load Interconnection Process Could Unlock the Benefits of Load 
Flexibility. NI PB 25-03. Durham, NC: Nicholas Institute for Energy, Environment & Sustainability, 
Duke University, available at: https://nicholasinstitute.duke.edu/publications/how-does-proposed-large-
load-interconnection-process-could-unlock-benefits.   

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
6 
this in mind, ACORE provides the following recommendations to inform a rulemaking on the 
interconnection of large loads: 
• ACORE agrees with the ANOPR recommendations to study load and hybrid facilities 
together with generating facilities as a means to improve the process efficiency and lower 
network upgrade costs; and to subject load and hybrid facilities to standardized study 
deposits, readiness requirements, and withdrawal penalties to provide greater certainty on 
the likelihood that such interconnection requests will materialize. 
• Regarding the ANOPR recommendation to expedite the interconnection of large loads 
that agree to be curtailable and hybrid facilities that agree to be curtailable and 
dispatchable, ACORE is concerned that queue prioritization methods can disrupt the 
processing of needed generation waiting in lengthy interconnection queues. With limited 
transmission provider resources, expediting these load interconnections could detract 
from efforts to bring other resources on-line to provide the power needed to meet 
growing demand. It would be beneficial for the Commission and transmission providers 
to focus more on holistic transmission planning that integrates the needs of the load and 
generation in the interconnection queues, than on the prioritization of certain projects. 
• The Commission should avoid a serial interconnection process for large load 
interconnection. As the Commission found in Order No. 2023, such a process introduces 
significant inefficiencies and contributes to interconnection queue backlogs.   
• One gap in the ANOPR principles that should be incorporated into a rulemaking on the 
interconnection of large loads is to mirror Order No. 2023’s requirements for 
“transmission providers to evaluate the following enumerated list of alternative 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
7 
transmission technologies: static synchronous compensators, static VAR compensators, 
advanced power flow control devices, transmission switching, synchronous condensers, 
voltage source converters, advanced conductors, and tower lifting.11 We also urge the 
Commission to include dynamic line ratings in the list of enumerated technologies. Such 
a requirement could lead to further deployment of these advanced technologies and 
improve the overall efficiency and capability of the grid. 
V.  
CONCLUSION 
ACORE recommends that the Commission’s response to the ANOPR advance important 
reforms for the interconnection of large loads, while also fully defining the problem at hand and 
taking more holistic steps to address the needed expansion and modernization of the grid.  
Respectfully submitted, 
/s/ Elise Caplan  
Elise Caplan  
Vice President, Regulatory Affairs 
American Council on Renewable Energy  
1150 Connecticut Ave NW, Suite 401  
Washington, D.C. 20036  
caplan@acore.org  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
November 21, 2025 
 
11 Order No. 2023 at P 1578. 
