--- PAGE 1 ---
 
Energystorage.org   
1 
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
) 
Ensuring the Timely and Orderly  
) 
 Interconnection of Large Loads 
 
) 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COMMENTS OF THE U.S. ENERGY STORAGE COALITION  
ON ADVANCE NOTICE OF PROPOSED RULEMAKING 
 
 
The U.S. Energy Storage Coalition (ESC) unites America’s leading grid battery 
manufacturers, energy storage developers, owners, and operators. The Coalition advances 
policies and solutions to ensure grid reliability amidst historic demand for power, lower energy 
costs for all Americans, strengthen grid capacity to support new industrial and AI infrastructure, 
and rapidly scale American manufacturing and minerals production. 
 
The ESC commends the U.S. Department of Energy and Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission (FERC) for evaluating measures to enable the interconnection of large loads by 
leveraging strategies and resources that enhance flexibility, mitigate grid impact, and ultimately 
stabilize electricity prices for all consumers. Energy storage is a unique resource and tool for 
quickly enhancing flexibility and with the appropriate FERC action, can better support and 
maximize America’s baseload energy resources to boost capacity and serve new large loads.  
The ESC therefore urges the Commission to move forward promptly, and to ensure that storage 
deployment can keep pace with large load interconnections. 
Load Flexibility Can Support Speed to Power, and Energy Storage is an Integral Technology 
The ANOPR’s proposal to expedite interconnection studies for large loads and hybrid 
facilities that agree to be curtailable and dispatchable can, if implemented effectively, 
significantly increase the pace of interconnection for large loads and their associated supply 
resources.  In particular, the ESC urges the Commission to take note in any subsequent 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
Energystorage.org   
2 
 
rulemaking that energy storage is uniquely situated to make an expedited interconnection process 
for large loads both feasible and reliable.  As a threshold matter, the Commission should specify 
that storage resources can be considered as part of a load-supply hybrid.  The ANOPR defines 
the term “hybrid facility” as “[large loads] seeking to share a point of interconnection with new 
or existing generation facilities;”1 just as the Commission’s Large Generator Interconnection 
Procedures accommodate energy storage, its definition of “hybrid facilities” in the large load 
context should also include energy storage. 
Next, ESC urges the Commission to ensure that hybrid facilities have a means of 
expediting their interconnection to the transmission grid.  The ANOPR proposes that load and 
hybrid facilities be studied together with generating facilities,2 and that curtailable or flexible 
loads should have an expedited pathway to interconnection.3  Energy storage is uniquely 
positioned as a rapid pathway for making loads curtailable and flexible, enabling them to 
potentially seek and obtain expedited interconnection. Experts estimate that more than 100 
gigawatts of large new loads, for example, can be integrated into the grid with minimal impact 
and with only modest, short-duration reductions in withdrawal from the system. 4 Energy storage 
is a solution well-suited to exactly this type of curtailment. Enabling large loads to avoid drawing 
from the grid by maintaining dispatchable energy during peak demand events—when 
transmission constraints are most salient—can dramatically reduce or eliminate the need for 
network upgrades that would otherwise require years of study and construction (as well as 
sizeable costs) to accommodate. Storage accomplishes this by charging during off-peak periods, 
 
1 ANOPR at P12. 
2 ANOPR at P20. 
3 ANOPR at P24. 
4 Norris, T.H., T. Profeta, D. Patino-Echeverri, and A. Cowie-Haskell, “Rethinking Load Growth: Assessing the 
Potential for Integration of Large Flexible Loads in U.S. Power Systems,” at 2 (2025) (“The average duration of 
load curtailment (i.e. the length of time the new load is curtailed during curtailment events) would be relatively 
short, at 1.7 hours when average annual load curtailment is limited to 0.25%, 2.1 hours at a 0.5% limits, and 2.5 
hours at a 1.0% limit”), https://nicholasinstitute.duke.edu/publications/rethinking-load-growth 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
Energystorage.org   
3 
 
and discharging to serve load during system peaks or extended periods of grid constraints. This 
load-shaping capability means that storage-backed loads can often interconnect with minimal 
system impact, justifying the expedited study timelines the Commission contemplates.   
The Commission should also ensure that load commitments to flexibility can be met by 
resources physically and/or electrically adjacent to load.  ESC expects that the record in this 
proceeding will contain substantial information on what circumstances a supply resource should 
be presumed sufficiently “adjacent” to ensure load flexibility obligations.  As one example, 
SPP’s recent High Impact Large Load proposal would enable expedited interconnection for load 
paired with generation, if the resources are within two substations of one another, or one 
substation if the transmission facility between them is 765kV.5  These types of presumptions, 
when based upon record evidence, may be helpful in providing clear rules of the road for load 
and supply pairings.  Importantly, the study of such adjacent, paired resources should coordinate 
the study of loads between energy storage resources paired with large loads, which would be 
expected to operate in a coordinated manner. 
Further, consistent with the proposals to study load and supply together, and to expedite 
interconnection for flexible loads, the Commission should ensure in any final action that storage 
resources are permitted to charge in low-usage intervals, when doing so will not trigger the need 
for expensive and long-lead-time upgrades that could easily place loads behind their planned 
interconnection schedules.  These limited withdrawal rights should be applicable in defined, 
constrained intervals, that will enable flexibility while also providing clarity regarding which 
constraints are binding, and which actions are needed to avoid any adverse impacts.  Storage can 
provide large load customers with valuable optionality to tap faster pathways that provide speed 
to power, particularly in transmission-constrained regions where firm interconnection may be 
unavailable or prohibitively expensive.  However, if storage resources are studied using 
 
5 Southwest Power Pool, Submission of Tariff Revisions to Add the High Impact Large Load Processes and High 
Impact Large Load Generation Assessment, Docket No. ER26-247 at 26-27, (2025)(“To be considered within the 
same electrically local area, the POI of the Generating must be no more than two substations away from the 
HILL.”).  

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
Energystorage.org   
4 
 
unrealistic assumptions (for instance, that they would opt to charge in congested, high-priced 
grid intervals), the resulting unnecessarily lengthy study processes could limit load’s ability to 
benefit from this quickly-deployable asset.  It is also important that storage resources’ charging 
be allowed to be studied at the same time as storage injections, either in an integrated single 
interconnection process or simultaneously in generator and load interconnection processes.  The 
Commission’s requirement in Order No. 2023 that storage be modeled based upon intended use 
sets a clear pathway for hybrid interconnection as well.6 
Real-world examples demonstrate storage’s effectiveness in enabling load flexibility 
today.  Iron Mountain, for example, is installing a battery system equal in size to its New Jersey 
data center’s load, enabling the data center to “effectively disappear from the power grid for 
hours when the grid is under duress, and charge when clean energy is abundant.”7 At the xAI 
Colossus facility in Tennessee, Tesla Megapacks were installed on-site in a matter of months to 
provide load smoothing services.8 Other data center developers like Aligned Data Centers have 
begun to implement strategies that the ANOPR contemplates by announcing that it would pay for 
a new 31-megawatt/62-megawatt-hour battery alongside a forthcoming data center in the Pacific 
Northwest to enable the data center to get online “years earlier than would be possible with 
traditional utility upgrades,” by electing to operate as curtailable load.9 
 
6 See Improvements to Generator Interconnection Procedures and Agreements, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054 (2023) at P1515 
(“Order No. 2023”) (“We adopt the proposed revisions to …require interconnection customers to include in their 
interconnection request the proposed operating assumptions that reflect the proposed charging behavior of the 
electric storage resource and a description of any control technologies that will limit the operation of the electric 
storage resource to its intended operation.”). 
7 Chris Pennington, Iron Mountain Data Centers, ”The changing face of data center sustainability,” (July 11, 2025), 
https://resources.ironmountain.com/blogs-and-articles/d/data-centers-the-changing-face-of-data-center-
sustainability. 
8 Tesla, “Megapack for Data Centers: Powering the Growth of AI Infrastructure.” (November, 2025). 
https://digitalassets.tesla.com/tesla-contents/image/upload/megapack-resources-megapack-for-data-centers-
powering-growth-of-ai-infrastructure.pdf  
9 Julian Spector, Canary Media, “In a first, a data center is using a big battery to get online faster“ (October 24, 
2025) https://www.canarymedia.com/articles/batteries/aligned-data-center-get-online-faster 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
Energystorage.org   
5 
 
The Commission should also carefully evaluate the record in this proceeding to evaluate 
core questions on load flexibility, as well as thoughtful incorporation of storage to facilitate that 
flexibility.  On the storage side, the Commission should consider carefully whether any rules 
developed for large loads are appropriate to extend to, or alternatively to exempt, energy storage 
resources in charging mode. In market operations, energy storage charging is a sale for resale 
and thus fundamentally different from large loads. The Commission may find reasons why such 
logic should differentiate energy storage charging from large load treatment in the 
interconnection process, or alternatively efficiencies to be gained by applying similar rules to 
energy storage as large loads for accelerating interconnections.   
Additionally, the Commission should take stock of a barrier that is hindering the rapid 
deployment of energy storage resources: certain energy storage and hybrid resources are not 
accredited in capacity markets today. The Commission should ensure that all grid operators 
develop capacity accreditation values for long-duration energy storage (>10 hours in duration), 
multi-day energy storage (>24 hours in duration), and hybrid resources that include various 
combinations of storage and generation. No organized market today has accredited battery 
durations beyond 8 hours. Similarly, no organized market has defined the capacity accreditation 
for hybrid resource with long-duration energy storage combined with another type of generator 
technology. Although hybrid resources are complex, as they have many potential configurations 
and variables, it is both highly achievable and necessary to develop a range of values for such 
resource pairings.  To fully recognize the physical and operational characteristics all storage 
resources, including long-duration and multi-day storage, consistent with Commission precedent, 
10  the Commission should ensure that grid operators capacity accreditation values for these 
 
10 FERC Order No. 841  requires RTOs/ISOs to establish market rules that recognize the physical and operational 
characteristics of electric storage resources and facilitate their participation in RTO/ISO markets, and “ensure that a 
resource using the [participation] model is eligible to provide all capacity, energy, and ancillary services that it is 
technically capable of providing.”  See Electric Storage Participation in Markets Operated by Regional 
Transmission Organizations and Independent System Operators, 162 FERC ¶ 61,127 at P115. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
Energystorage.org   
6 
 
resources. This action will unlock the potential of long-duration energy storage to support large 
load interconnections, strengthen grid reliability, and reduce capacity market prices.11   
On the load side, major considerations include the percentage of load that must be 
curtailable, how many hours annually a load must be flexible, what response times are required, 
and whether curtailability commitments must be firm or may be conditional on operational 
constraints. Without objective criteria, transmission providers will apply inconsistent standards, 
and developers will face regulatory uncertainty that undermines the benefits of expedited 
processing.  The Commission should also be open considering and taking stock of regional 
differences on these issues. 
In closing, the Energy Storage Coalition again expresses its support for the Commission 
swift action to implement measures that enable the timely interconnection of large loads while 
fully leveraging the flexibility and grid-strengthening value that energy storage provides. With 
appropriate FERC action, energy storage can rapidly enhance system flexibility, support and 
maximize America’s baseload energy resources, and deliver additional capacity to reliably serve 
new industrial and AI-driven demand. By advancing policies that allow storage deployment to 
keep pace with large load growth, the Commission can help stabilize electricity prices for 
consumers while strengthening America’s energy and economic security. 
 
 
Respectfully, 
 
 
 
Noah Roberts 
Executive Director 
U.S. Energy Storage Coalition 
(202) 860-9256  
noah@energystorage.org 
  
November 21, 2025 
 
11 See for additional context on commercial impacts, Pre-Conference Comments of Form Energy, May 23, 2025, 
FERC Docket No. AD25-7-000, Commissioner-led Technical Conference Regarding the Challenge of Resource 
Adequacy in Regional Transmission Organization and Independent System Operator Regions 
