--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System 
) 
) 
) 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
INITIAL COMMENTS OF 
THE MISO TRANSMISSION OWNERS 
 
 
The MISO Transmission Owners1 submit these comments in response to the Notice 
Inviting Comments issued by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“Commission”) 
in the above-captioned docket on October 27, 2025, regarding the Advance Notice of 
 
1  
The MISO Transmission Owners for this filing consist of: Ameren Services 
Company, as agent for Union Electric Company d/b/a Ameren Missouri, Ameren 
Illinois Company d/b/a Ameren Illinois and Ameren Transmission Company of 
Illinois; American Transmission Company LLC; Big Rivers Electric Corporation; 
Central Minnesota Municipal Power Agency; Citizens Electric Corporation; City 
Water, Light & Power (Springfield, IL); Cleco Power LLC; Cooperative Energy; 
Dairyland Power Cooperative; Duke Energy Business Services, LLC for Duke 
Energy Indiana, LLC; East Texas Electric Cooperative; Entergy Arkansas, LLC; 
Entergy Louisiana, LLC; Entergy Mississippi, LLC; Entergy New Orleans, LLC; 
Entergy Texas, Inc.; Great River Energy; GridLiance Heartland LLC; Hoosier 
Energy Rural Electric Cooperative, Inc.; Indiana Municipal Power Agency; 
Indianapolis Power & Light Company d/b/a AES Indiana; Lafayette Utilities 
System; MidAmerican Energy Company; Minnesota Power (and its subsidiary 
Superior Water, L&P); Montana-Dakota Utilities Co.; Northern Indiana Public 
Service Company LLC; Northern States Power Company, a Minnesota corporation, 
and Northern States Power Company, a Wisconsin corporation, subsidiaries of Xcel 
Energy Inc.; Northwestern Wisconsin Electric Company; Otter Tail Power 
Company; Prairie Power, Inc.; Republic Transmission, LLC; Southern Illinois 
Power Cooperative; Southern Indiana Gas & Electric Company (d/b/a CenterPoint 
Energy Indiana South); Southern Minnesota Municipal Power Agency; Wabash 
Valley Power Association, Inc.; and Wolverine Power Supply Cooperative, Inc.  
Indianapolis Power & Light Company d/b/a AES Indiana does not join Parts 
III.C.1-5 and 11-12 of these comments. 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
2 
Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) released by the Secretary of Energy (“Secretary”) on 
October 23, 2025.2   
While the MISO Transmission Owners strongly agree with the Secretary that large 
loads must be able to interconnect to the transmission system in a timely, orderly, and 
reliable manner, the MISO Transmission Owners respectfully submit that some of the 
reforms proposed in this ANOPR, depending on how they are shaped into a final rule, could 
in fact hinder progress being made across the industry to address the unique issues arising 
from individual large load interconnections.  These comments offer the unique perspective 
of a diverse group of transmission facility-owning entities in Midcontinent Independent 
System Operator, Inc. (“MISO”)3 with history and expertise on the issues of transmission 
system management, reliability standards, and interconnection processes.   
I. 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY   
The MISO Transmission Owners appreciate the Secretary’s and the Commission’s 
focus on one of the most pressing issues facing the MISO region and the country—the 
interconnection of large loads.  The current Administration has stressed the vital 
importance of timely and efficiently integrating large loads that are critical to maintaining 
 
2  
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Advance 
Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 23, 2025) 
(“ANOPR”); see Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission 
System, Notice Inviting Comments, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 27, 2025).  The 
Secretary issued the ANOPR pursuant to section 403 of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act, directing the Commission to initiate rulemaking procedures to 
consider the ANOPR and its potential reforms for the interconnection of large loads 
to the transmission system.  ANOPR at P 1 (citing 42 U.S.C. § 7173). 
3  
The MISO Transmission Owners are a group of investor-owned vertically-
integrated utilities, stand-alone transmission companies, cooperative utilities, and 
municipal utilities that own electric transmission facilities over which the MISO 
provides electric transmission service subject to the Commission’s jurisdiction. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
3 
our national security, economic prosperity, and scientific leadership.4  The Administration 
has also stressed the critical importance of ample generation and a robust transmission 
system in integrating large loads.5  Consistent with the Administration’s agenda, the MISO 
Transmission Owners are working proactively with others in the MISO region, both at the 
state and federal levels, to ensure that large loads are interconnected in an efficient manner 
and to support the development of the generation and transmission necessary to further 
integrate large loads efficiently, reliably, and in a manner that avoids unfair cost shifts.  
While there is still more work to be done, since the 2022 MISO Transmission Expansion 
Plan (“MTEP”) cycle, the MISO Transmission Owners have sought to build, and MISO 
has approved, the needed transmission enhancements to accommodate approximately 14.4 
gigawatts (“GW”) of large load additions.6  
While the MISO Transmission Owners agree with the Secretary and the 
Commission as to the importance of these issues and acknowledge there is room for further 
enhancement and innovation, the MISO Transmission Owners are concerned that the 
 
4  
See, e.g., Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence, The 
White 
House 
(Jan. 
23, 
2025), 
https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-
actions/2025/01/removing-barriers-to-american-leadership-in-artificial-
intelligence/ (“Executive Order 14179”); see Winning the Race: America’s AI 
Action Plan, The White House (July 2025), https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-
content/uploads/2025/07/Americas-AI-Action-Plan.pdf (“America’s AI Action 
Plan”); Accelerating Federal Permitting of Data Center Infrastructure, The White 
House 
(July 
23, 
2025), 
https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-
actions/2025/07/accelerating-federal-permitting-of-data-center-infrastructure/ 
(“Executive Order 14318”).  
5  
See, e.g., Executive Order 14179; America’s AI Action Plan at 1, 14-16. 
6  
This figure was determined by starting with the 2022 MTEP Cycle and looking at 
transmission projects needed to accommodate new load additions of 50 megawatts 
(“MW”) or greater.  Forty-six such transmission projects, for 14.4 GW of new load, 
have been approved.   

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
4 
reforms proposed in the ANOPR, including its jurisdictional claims, risk upsetting efforts 
already underway and significantly delaying the integration of large loads.  Assuming the 
Commission has jurisdiction over the interconnection of all large loads to the transmission 
system as the ANOPR claims, the MISO Transmission Owners urge the Commission to 
not prejudge whether the Commission should assert any such jurisdiction to enact the 
proposed reforms.  As explained in more detail below, the MISO Transmission Owners, in 
collaboration with their state regulators, MISO, and other stakeholders in the region, are 
actively working to integrate large loads efficiently and reliably and to advance the 
development of the necessary generation and transmission infrastructure to support large 
load integration.  Notably, as mentioned above, to date the MISO Transmission Owners 
will construct, own, and operate the transmission enhancements to support approximately 
14.4 GW of large load additions.  The MISO Transmission Owners have a long track record 
of timely developing needed transmission, which is key to enabling the reliable 
interconnection of large loads and facilitating the delivery of energy in a reliable and secure 
manner.  The reliable interconnection of large loads requires assessment of voltage and 
stability issues, among others, which may be mitigated with specific transmission facilities, 
all of which are necessary to ensure these new large loads are served with the utmost 
reliability given their potential role in national security.   
Given the nascency of these issues, pursuing the adoption of a federal, one-size-
fits-all approach at this juncture could not only risk delaying the addition of large loads to 
the system and the incremental infrastructure needed to accommodate those additions, but 
also frustrate the discovery of new and innovative solutions.7  Before pursuing such an 
 
7  
See New State Ice Co. v. Liebmann, 285 U.S. 262, 311 (1932) (Brandeis, J. 
dissenting) (“To stay experimentation in things social and economic is a grave 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
5 
approach, best practices have to be given time to be discovered and tested—an effort 
currently being pursued by the MISO Transmission Owners, MISO, states, and industry 
participants around the country.  If the Commission decides to pursue generic paradigm-
shifting action, the MISO Transmission Owners encourage the Commission to ensure that 
such action allows continued regional flexibility, promotes innovation, ensures reliability 
and affordability, and respects longstanding state and federal jurisdictional divides.  Doing 
so will ensure that the region’s finite time and resources are allowed to continue to be used 
to focus on efficiently, reliably, and fairly integrating new large load in the region. 
II. 
COMMENTS 
A. 
The MISO Region Has Already Made Progress Integrating Load 
Efficiently and Reliably 
1. 
Process for Integrating Load into MISO 
The interconnection of load to the transmission system, regardless of size, is largely 
a matter of state jurisdiction.  As such, the transmission owner, load serving entity (“LSE”), 
and the load owner play lead roles in managing and interconnecting load to the 
transmission system.  Specifically, the load owner seeking to interconnect to MISO’s 
transmission system coordinates with the appropriate transmission owner and LSE, which 
are the same entity in a large part of the MISO region.  State retail tariffs govern the process 
for the load owner to request and receive either fully bundled electric service or, in the case 
of states with retail access, electric delivery service.  If the load will be served by a utility 
with retail rate regulation, that utility utilizes its own time-tested practices and procedures 
 
responsibility.  Denial of the right to experiment may be fraught with serious 
consequences to the Nation.  It is one of the happy incidents of the federal system 
that a single courageous State may, if its citizens choose, serve as a laboratory; and 
try novel social and economic experiments without risk to the rest of the country.”). 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
6 
in terms of analyzing the load’s impacts on the transmission system. If the load will be 
served by a utility whose transmission is regulated fully by the Commission (e.g., 
restructured or independent transmission owner), the MISO Open Access Transmission, 
Energy and Operating Reserve Markets Tariff (“Tariff” or “MISO Tariff”)8 in large part 
outlines the process for obtaining wholesale transmission service.  Among other things, the 
utility may develop and enter into a study agreement, receive a request to conduct a system 
impact study, or engage with a similar mechanism to analyze the load.  Subsequently, the 
responsible transmission owner, which, again, may also be the LSE, will study whether the 
proposed load can physically and reliably interconnect with the transmission system, or 
what upgrades are needed to enable the interconnection.  Transmission owners generally 
have their own individual procedures and planning criteria for interconnecting load to their 
transmission network developed under unique combinations of state laws, geographic and 
demographic service territory characteristics, and local transmission and distribution 
system features.  If the load owner decides to move forward with the project, the 
transmission owner, LSE, and load owner will enter into an agreement to govern providing 
service or proceed under an existing interconnection agreement.  
MISO’s role in the process to interconnect large loads is generally limited to the 
evaluation of transmission system enhancements and coordination once the transmission 
owner, LSE, and load owner have already followed applicable transmission owner-specific 
procedures.9  Initially, the transmission owner determines if there are any potential 
 
8  
All capitalized terms in this filing that are not otherwise defined have the same 
meaning as they have under the Tariff.   
9  
However, review of transmission service requests associated with the new load may 
also identify impacts and upgrades required to provide transmission service. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
7 
reliability issues with the load request and identifies any mitigations to address reliability 
concerns and related timelines.  Transmission owners may continue to respond to and 
assess customer alternatives, e.g., changes to points of interconnection or ramp rates, to 
meet the timelines of the interconnecting loads and mitigate any impacts in an acceptable 
manner.  MISO independently reviews all transmission system enhancements (i.e., network 
upgrades) identified as necessary by the transmission owner to determine their impact on 
MISO transmission system reliability.  Importantly, for projects that cannot wait for the 
next annual MTEP cycle due to urgent needs, like the timing of large load additions, MISO 
has used its Expedited Project Review (“EPR”) process to study necessary transmission 
enhancements.  
The EPR process is an open and transparent process that permits MISO to study 
transmission projects outside of the regular MTEP cycle.10  In the event that a transmission 
owner determines that system conditions warrant the urgent development of system 
enhancements, MISO uses a streamlined approval process for reviewing and approving the 
project proposed by the transmission owner.  MISO’s decision is provided to the 
transmission owner within thirty days of a project’s submittal to MISO unless a longer 
 
10  
The EPR process is detailed in Section 4.1.4 of Business Practices Manual 20 
(Transmission Planning) and governed by Appendix B, Section VII of the 
Transmission Owners’ Agreement, and Section I.D.1.c of Attachment FF to the 
Tariff.  Business Practices Manual: Transmission Planning, Manual No. 020, 
Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc., section 4.1.4 (Rev. 33, July 1, 
2025), 
https://cdn.misoenergy.org/BPM-
020%20Transmission%20Planning113822.zip?v=20250124144741 
(follow 
document titled “BPM-020-r33_Transmission Planning_CLEAN.pdf” in zip file) 
(“Business Practices Manual 20”); Agreement of Transmission Facilities Owners 
to Organize the Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc., a Delaware Non-
Stock Corporation, Appendix B, Section VII; MISO Tariff, Attachment FF, section 
I.D.1.c. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
8 
review period is mutually agreed upon.  EPRs allow for the quick incremental addition of 
transmission and load to the electric grid should the need arise.   
Once MISO’s review is complete, any necessary EPR projects are considered 
approved by MISO, the MTEP models are updated, and the transmission owner is expected 
to move forward with the implementation of the project to meet its obligations and 
requirements as provided for in the Transmission Owner’s Agreement.  If no network 
upgrades are required to interconnect a proposed load, the transmission owner is not 
required to complete an out-of-cycle MTEP update, but must still coordinate with MISO’s 
planning and operational groups.   
The responsible LSE and transmission owner are also expected to submit demand 
and load data to MISO as part of the next MTEP study cycle for transmission system 
planning purposes.11     
2. 
Recent Efforts to Ensure Adequate Transmission and Generation 
for Integrating New Load 
Over the last several years, the MISO Transmission Owners, together with MISO, 
member states, and other stakeholders, have been and continue to proactively work to 
ensure that the interconnection of large loads in MISO is realized in an efficient and fair 
manner that does not jeopardize reliability or affordability.  Although large loads can 
present unique challenges, they also present unique economic opportunities, which the 
stakeholders in the MISO region, including the MISO Transmission Owners, are keenly 
focused on realizing.   
 
11  
See, e.g., MISO Tariff, Attachment FF, sections I.C.7 & 8; Business Practices 
Manual 20, sections 4.3.3.2, 3.3.2.   

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
9 
The MISO Transmission Owners are dedicated to ensuring a robust transmission 
system and facilitating and maintaining resource adequacy in the region to support new 
large loads.  For example, the Draft MTEP25 Report consists of transmission projects to 
facilitate the reliable interconnection of 11.6 GW of new load.12  Last year, MTEP24 
included $21.8 billion of long-range transmission projects, which provide “a robust 
regional backbone supporting 115.7 GW” of resource enablement.13  Additionally, after 
Commission approval of MISO’s Expedited Resource Addition Study (“ERAS”) process 
in July 2025, which is fast-tracking needed new generation to meet growing load,14 forty-
seven projects from LSEs representing more than 26,500 MW of proposed new capacity 
were submitted.15  The first ten projects selected for expedited study, across all three MISO 
regions, representing a total installed capacity of 5,300 MW, were announced in early 
September.16  In addition, individual MISO Transmission Owners are engaged in several 
 
12  
Draft MTEP25 Report, Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc., Chapter 
4.1 
at 
5 
(Sep. 
26, 
2025), 
https://cdn.misoenergy.org/MTEP25%20Chapter%204%20-
%20Local%20Reliability%20Planning720396.pdf?v=20250929111625 
(“Draft 
MTEP25 Report”).  On November 17, 2025, the MTEP25 Report was approved by 
the System Planning Committee of the MISO Board of Directors and will be 
presented to the full MISO Board for consideration on December 11, 2025.  
Because of the November 21, 2025, the MISO Board has not yet approved 
MTEP25, the MISO Transmission Owners will cite the report as Draft.   
13  
MTEP24 Report, Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc., 80, 88 (Dec. 
11, 2024), https://cdn.misoenergy.org/MTEP24720395.zip (“MTEP24 Full 
Report”) (follow document titled “MTEP Full Report.pdf” in zip file). 
14  
Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 192 FERC ¶ 61,064 (2025).  
15  
MISO announces first 10 ERAS Projects, Midcontinent Independent System 
Operator, Inc. (Sept. 4, 2025), https://www.misoenergy.org/meet-miso/media-
center/2025---news-releases/miso-announces-first-10-eras-project/.  
16  
Id.  

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
10 
initiatives to meet the growing demand of large load additions.17  Below are a few of the 
recent initiatives intended to bolster these efforts.   
As part of its Long-Range Transmission Planning (“LRTP”) process, the MISO 
Transmission Owners, in collaboration with MISO, member states, and other stakeholders, 
developed and the MISO Board of Directors approved in December 2024 the Tranche 2.1 
portfolio, a 3,631 mile 345 kV and 765 kV transmission backbone portfolio of projects that 
address reliability and economic issues created by load growth, weather variability, and 
new resource interconnections, and that are needed to support regional power transfer 
 
17  
For example, the Louisiana Public Service Commission recently approved Entergy 
Louisiana’s plans to build new dispatchable generation and 1.5 GW of renewable 
resources, along with several new transmission lines and substations to support 
Meta’s data center complex in Richland Parish.  Entergy Louisiana receives LPSC 
approval for major infrastructure investments to support Meta’s data center and 
improve 
reliability, 
Entergy 
Corporation 
(Aug. 
20, 
2025), 
https://www.entergy.com/news/entergy-louisiana-receives-lpsc-approval-for-
major-infrastructure-investments-to-support-metas-data-center-and-improve-
reliability.  Entergy Arkansas recently announced that it would provide power for 
Google’s $4 billion cloud and artificial intelligence infrastructure through a new 
600 MW solar and 350 MW battery storage system in that state.  Entergy Arkansas 
powers Google’s $4B investment in the state, Entergy Corporation (Oct. 20, 2025), 
https://www.entergy.com/news/entergy-arkansas-powers-googles-4b-investment-
in-the-state.  Northern Indiana Public Service Company recently announced plans 
to construct new dispatchable generation facilities to serve a “large, investment 
grade company” to meet the unnamed company’s growing data center load needs.  
NIPSCO inks deals to power unnamed company’s data centers, Indiana Economic 
Digest (Sep. 26, 2025), https://indianaeconomicdigest.net/Content/Default/Also-
In-The-News/Article/NIPSCO-inks-deals-to-power-unnamed-company-s-data-
centers/-3/5307/120016; see Form 8-K, NiSource Inc., United States Securities and 
Exchange 
Commission 
(Sep. 
22, 
2025), 
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1111711/000119312525209933/d93579
7d8k.htm.  Xcel Energy recently announced a five-year $45 billion investment plan 
to support, among other things, an expected pipeline of new load of 9 GW by 2030 
across Xcel’s footprint.  Xcel Welcomes Load Growth from Data Centers, RTO 
Insider LLC (Oct. 31, 2025), https://www.rtoinsider.com/90904-xcel-welcomes-
load-growth-data-centers/.   

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
11 
within MISO.18  This is arguably the most significant initiative undertaken in the MISO 
region, that among other benefits, will accelerate generator interconnection and support 
large load additions.  Another recent transmission planning enhancement was in response 
to the increase in large loads, in 2024 and 2025, whereby MISO, the MISO Transmission 
Owners, and other stakeholders worked to refine the EPR process to advance urgent 
transmission projects outside the standard MTEP cycle.  With the refinements, MISO 
creates sequential and well-defined study cases for EPRs on an every-other month basis, 
while allowing MISO to quickly approve new requests, potentially within thirty days.  
The MISO Transmission Owners also supported the August 2024, filing by MISO, 
together with Southwest Power Pool, Inc. (“SPP”), to implement the Joint Targeted 
Interconnection Queue (“JTIQ”) framework.19  The JTIQ framework enables MISO and 
SPP to develop a portfolio of “backbone network upgrades” to facilitate the interconnection 
of over 28 GW of generation near the seam between the Regional Transmission 
Organizations (“RTOs”) to serve load in both regions.20  The MISO Transmission Owners 
also supported the June 2025 filing by MISO to establish the ERAS process, which, as 
described above, is fast-tracking needed new generation to address urgent resource 
adequacy and reliability needs in the near term due, in part, to significant projected load 
growth.21  The MISO Transmission Owners also continue to work with MISO to address 
 
18  
MTEP24 Executive Summary, Midcontinent Independent System Operator, 2, 13, 
14-15 (Dec. 11, 2024), https://cdn.misoenergy.org/MTEP24720395.zip (follow 
document titled “MTEP Executive Summary.pdf” in zip file). 
19  
Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 192 FERC ¶ 61,105 (2025).  
20  
Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 189 FERC ¶ 61,108, at P 63 (2024).  
21  
Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 192 FERC ¶ 61,064.  

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
12 
the high volume of interconnection requests, including by supporting MISO’s efforts to 
use and improve upon Pearl Street Technologies’ Suite of Unified Grid Analyses with 
Renewables (“SUGAR”) platform.  SUGAR significantly reduces the time needed to 
process early stages of generator interconnection studies by automating power flow 
modeling and identifying transmission constraints and potential mitigation.22  
The MISO Transmission Owners appreciate the ANOPR’s statement that the 
proposed reforms are not intended to discourage entities from submitting filings under 
Federal Power Act (“FPA”) section 20523 to address these issues.24  MISO and the MISO 
Transmission Owners have done just that in recent new and revised processes approved by 
the Commission.  The MISO Transmission Owners prefer to continue to exercise their FPA 
section 205 rights to address the interconnection of large loads, and avoid the potential that 
the reforms as proposed in the ANOPR could interfere with the ongoing efforts of the 
MISO Transmission Owners and the MISO region at large.25 
 
22  
MISO’s Benchmarking of Pearl Street SUGAR, Midcontinent Independent System 
Operator, 
Inc., 
3 
(Apr. 
15, 
2025), 
https://cdn.misoenergy.org/MISO%20Benchmarking%20of%20Pearl%20Street%
20SUGAR697461.pdf; see also System Planning Committee of the Board of 
Directors, Long Term Resource Adequacy & Interconnection Queue Update, 
Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc., 11 (Sep. 16, 2025), 
https://cdn.misoenergy.org/06_2025-09-
16_SPC_Open_Long%20Term%20Resource%20Adequacy%20%20Interconnecti
on%20Queue%20Update_FINAL717559.pdf (“SUGAR Software automates 
processes to reduce time-consuming steps of study process”). 
23  
16 U.S.C. § 824d. 
24  
ANOPR at P 32. 
25  
It is axiomatic that there can be more than one just and reasonable approach.  See, 
e.g., Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 162 FERC ¶ 61,176, at P 57 (2018) 
(“In its orders, the Commission has consistently rejected a one-size-fits-all 
approach in the various RTOs/[independent system operators (“ISOs”)] due, in 
large part, to significant differences between each region and that there can be more 

--- PAGE 13 ---
 
13 
3. 
The MISO Transmission Owners, Together with MISO and Other 
Stakeholders in the MISO Region, Have Had Success Adding 
Large Loads 
As stated above, since the 2022 MTEP cycle, the MISO Transmission Owners have 
worked to interconnect and MISO has approved the needed transmission enhancements to 
accommodate approximately 14.4 GW of large load additions.26  Load growth is the single 
largest driver for MTEP25.27  The Draft MTEP25 Report includes transmission projects 
needed to accommodate the interconnection of 11.6 GW of spot load additions.28  The 
MISO region is seen as an advantageous location for large load to interconnect as 
illustrated by the roughly 15.5 GW of existing large load and new load additions announced 
throughout the region by the end of 2024,29 and recent announcements.30  The Commission 
 
than one just and reasonable rate.”); Louisville Gas & Elec. Co., 114 FERC 
¶ 61,282, at P 29 (2006) (“[T]he just and reasonable standard under the FPA is not 
so rigid as to limit rates to a ‘best rate’ or ‘most efficient rate’ standard.  Rather, a 
range of alternative approaches often may be just and reasonable.”). 
26  
As noted above, this figure was determined by starting with the 2022 MTEP Cycle 
and looking at transmission projects needed to accommodate new load additions of 
50 MW or greater.  Forty-six such transmission projects, for 14.4 GW of new load, 
have been approved.  
27  
Draft MTEP25 Report, Chapter 4.1 at 4.  
28  
Id. at 5. 
29  
Large Load Facility Additional Information, Midcontinent Independent System 
Operator, 
Inc. 
(Dec. 
6, 
2024), 
https://cdn.misoenergy.org/NEW%20LOAD%20ANNOUNCEMENTS%20IN%2
0MISO%20REGIONS%2012062024684954.pdf (at the end of 2024, MISO 
estimated that new large load additions announced in MISO South, Central, and 
North Regions would amount to approximately 13 GW). 
30  
See, e.g., Michael Doorn, ND announces $3 billion data center, energy providers 
prepare, Keloland.com (Aug. 19, 2025), https://www.keloland.com/keloland-com-
original/nd-announces-3-billion-data-center-energy-providers-prepare/ (“A new $3 
billion data center in North Dakota is set to break ground in September, bringing 
North Dakota’s data center count up to 22 according to a Data Center Map website.  
South Dakota has 5 possible data centers, according to Data Center Map.”); Google 

--- PAGE 14 ---
 
14 
should take into account the successful aspects of large load interconnections that the 
MISO Transmission Owners have accomplished as it considers the scope and content of 
any rulemaking on the topic, as the record and Commission demonstrate may be necessary 
under FPA section 206.31   
B. 
Need For Reform and Assertion of Jurisdiction Risk Frustrating the 
Interconnection of Large Loads in the MISO Region 
The ANOPR, including its stated need for reform, raises several significant legal 
and policy questions, including the extent to which the Commission proposes to exercise 
jurisdiction over bundled retail sales.  While the MISO Transmission Owners appreciate 
the Secretary’s and the Commission’s interest in and support of the efficient and reliable 
integration of large loads, the MISO Transmission Owners are concerned that some of the 
reforms proposed in the ANOPR, including certain aspects of its jurisdictional claims, 
actually risk delaying the integration of large loads.  Assuming arguendo that the 
Commission has jurisdiction over the interconnection of large loads as the ANOPR claims, 
 
Locating New Data Center in West Memphis, Arkansas with Multi-Billion Dollar 
Investment, Arkansas Economic Development Commission (Oct. 2, 2025), 
https://www.arkansasedc.com/news-events/newsroom/detail/2025/10/02/google-
locating-new-data-center-in-west-memphis--arkansas-with-multi-billion-dollar-
investment (“Google’s multi-billion-dollar investment in West Memphis is one of 
the largest investments ever in our state.”); Gov. Whitmer on Stargate 
Announcement from Open AI, Oracle, & Related Digital Creating Thousands of 
Jobs, Largest Investment in Michigan History, Governor Gretchen Whitmer (Oct. 
30, 
2025), 
https://www.michigan.gov/whitmer/news/press-
releases/2025/10/30/whitmer-on-stargate-announcement-from-openai-oracle-
related-digital-creating-thousands-of-jobs (“[B]ig projects in next-generation 
industries from cars and clean energy to semiconductors and batteries.”). 
31  
16 U.S.C. § 824e. 

--- PAGE 15 ---
 
15 
the MISO Transmission Owners urge the Commission not to prejudge whether it should 
assert any such jurisdiction.32   
The MISO Transmission Owners respectfully submit that the generic action 
contemplated in the ANOPR and its purported claims of jurisdiction, are not, “in fact 
‘necessary to eliminate undue discrimination and protect electricity customers,’”33 
especially in the MISO region.  As shown above, the MISO Transmission Owners are 
successfully integrating large loads reliably and efficiently.  Also, unlike the record in 
Order No. 88834 and Order No. 2003,35 there does not appear to be a record of significant 
 
32  
See New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1, 35 (2002) (Thomas, J., dissenting) (“To be 
sure, I would not prejudge whether [the Commission] must require that 
transmission used for bundled retail sales be subject to [the Commission]’s open 
access tariff.  At a minimum, however, [the Commission] should have determined 
whether regulating transmission used in connection with bundled retail sales was 
in fact ‘necessary to eliminate undue discrimination and protect electricity 
customers.’”); id. at 42 (Thomas, J., dissenting) (“I would not, as petitioner Enron 
requests, compel [the Commission] to apply the [open access transmission tariff to 
bundled retail transmissions.  I would vacate the Court of Appeals’ judgment and 
require [the Commission] on remand to engage in reasoned decisionmaking to 
determine whether there is undue discrimination with respect to transmission 
associated with retail bundled sales, and if so, what remedy is appropriate.”).   
33  
Id. at 35 (Thomas, J., dissenting).   
34  
Promoting Wholesale Competition Through Open Access Non-Discriminatory 
Transmission Services by Public Utilities; Recovery of Stranded Costs by Public 
Utilities and Transmitting Utilities, Order No. 888, 75 FERC ¶ 61,080, 1991–1996 
FERC Stats. & Regs., Regs. Preambles ¶ 31,036 (1996), order on reh’g, Order No. 
888-A, 78 FERC ¶ 61,220, 1996–2000 FERC Stats. & Regs., Regs. Preambles 
¶ 31,048, order on reh’g, Order No. 888-B, 81 FERC ¶ 61,248 (1997), reh’g 
denied, Order No. 888-C, 82 FERC ¶ 61,046 (1998), aff’d in part & remanded in 
part sub nom. Transmission Access Policy Study Group v. FERC, 225 F.3d 667 
(D.C. Cir. 2000), aff’d sub nom. New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1 (2002). 
35  
Standardization of Generator Interconnection Agreements and Procedures, Order 
No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103 (2003), order on reh’g, Order No. 2003-A, 106 
FERC ¶ 61,220, order on reh’g, Order No. 2003-B, 109 FERC ¶ 61,287 (2004), 
order on reh’g, Order No. 2003-C, 111 FERC ¶ 61,401 (2005), aff’d sub nom. Nat’l 

--- PAGE 16 ---
 
16 
large load-related interconnection disputes.36  Nor does the ANOPR cite any evidence of 
undue discrimination involving the interconnection of large loads.  In fact, there is robust 
competition among utilities and across regions to interconnect large loads efficiently.  For 
example, the MISO region, in particular, which is predominantly made up of vertically 
integrated utilities, has every incentive to interconnect loads as efficiently as possible.  
Given the nascency of the issues raised in the ANOPR and that not all Commission-
jurisdictional utilities are similarly situated (e.g., vertically integrated, stand-alone 
transmission), the MISO Transmission Owners strongly encourage the Commission to 
refrain from taking generic action to develop a one-size-fits-all approach and instead, 
support transmission owners and transmission providers in their pursuit of solutions that 
facilitate the expeditious integration of large loads in a manner that preserves reliability 
and affordability.   
 
If the Commission nevertheless decides that generic action is required, the MISO 
Transmission Owners urge the Commission to further clarify the extent to which the 
Commission proposes to exercise jurisdiction over retail load.  The ANOPR states that 
“[e]ven if the large load seeking to interconnect to the transmission system is an end-use 
customer, the proposal does not exert jurisdiction over any retail sales to the large load,”37 
that the Commission has “exclusive jurisdiction over the transmission of electric energy in 
 
Ass’n of Regul. Util. Comm’rs v. FERC, 475 F.3d 1277 (D.C. Cir. 2007), cert. 
denied, 552 U.S. 1230 (2008). 
36  
ANOPR at P 8 (stating that, in Order No. 2003, the “Commission noted an 
increasing number of interconnection-related disputes, and determined that ‘the 
case-by-case approach is an inadequate and inefficient means to address 
interconnection issues’”). 
37  
Id. at P 15. 

--- PAGE 17 ---
 
17 
interstate commerce, including the rates, terms, and conditions of transmission service, and 
all facilities for such transmission or sale of electric energy at wholesale in interstate 
commerce,”38 and “any large load that seeks to interconnect to the transmission system 
does so to obtain transmission service.”39  The ANOPR also states that “the Commission’s 
jurisdiction should be limited to interconnections directly to transmission facilities” to 
avoid “even arguably affecting the States’ jurisdiction.”40   
One reading of the foregoing is that the ANOPR is purporting to exert jurisdiction 
only over large loads that specifically seek to interconnect to the transmission system to 
obtain transmission service, and not loads of franchised public utilities (i.e., load serving 
obligations) that are generally planned for as network load (i.e., bundled retail sales).  The 
interconnection to retail load where no transmission service is being requested may be 
distinguishable from the customer seeking transmission service allowed by state laws.  In 
any future action on this ANOPR, the Commission should clarify that it is not exercising 
jurisdiction over load interconnections where the load is the recipient of bundled 
transmission service under state law.41   
C. 
Comments on the ANOPR’s Fourteen Principles 
The issues raised in many of the principles being proposed in the ANOPR depend 
heavily on the specific facts and circumstances presented in particular situations, including 
 
38  
Id. at P 16. 
39  
Id. 
40  
Id. at 18. 
41  
This situation is also distinguishable from a generator, as part of a hybrid facility, 
selling energy at wholesale, or the hybrid facility selling energy at wholesale or 
arranging for and taking transmission service.   

--- PAGE 18 ---
 
18 
applicable state laws and regulations.  As such, the MISO Transmission Owners provide 
high-level feedback based on the broad language of the proposed principles and facts 
presented.  The MISO Transmission Owners also emphasize the importance of permitting 
flexibility in any reforms and how they are implemented.  Relatedly, the MISO 
Transmission Owners encourage the Commission to permit deviations from any final rule 
consistent with (1) Order Nos. 888, 890, 2003, 2006, 845, and 2023 where the Commission 
applied the “consistent with or superior to” standard when considering proposals from non-
RTO/ISO transmission providers to deviate from the requirements of the final rule;42 and 
(2) Order Nos. 2003, 2006, 845, and 2023 where the Commission permitted the use of the 
 
42  
Order No. 888 at 31,769-770; Preventing Undue Discrimination and Preference in 
Transmission Service, Order No. 890, 118 FERC ¶ 61,119, at P 109 (“[W]e reiterate 
that any departures from the pro forma [open access transmission tariff] proposed 
by an ISO or an RTO must be ‘consistent with or superior to’ the pro forma [open 
access transmission tariff] in this Final Rule.”), order on reh’g, Order No. 890-A, 
121 FERC ¶ 61,297 (2007), order on reh’g & clarification, Order No. 890-B, 123 
FERC ¶ 61,299 (2008), order on reh’g & clarification, Order No. 890-C, 126 
FERC ¶ 61,228, order on clarification, Order No. 890-D, 129 FERC ¶ 61,126 
(2009); Order No. 2003 at P 825; Standardization of Small Generator 
Interconnection Agreements and Procedures, Order No. 2006, 111 FERC ¶ 61,220, 
at PP 546-547, order on reh’g, Order No. 2006-A, 113 FERC ¶ 61,195 (2005), 
order on clarification, Order No. 2006-B, 116 FERC ¶ 61,046 (2006); Reform of 
Generator Interconnection Procedures and Agreements, Order No. 845, 163 FERC 
¶ 61,043, at P 43 (2018) (explaining that a transmission provider that is not an 
RTO/ISO that seeks a variation from the requirements of the final rule must present 
its justification for the variation as consistent with or superior to the pro forma 
LGIA or pro forma LGIP), order on reh’g & clarification, Order No. 845-A, 166 
FERC ¶ 61,137, order on reh’g & clarification, Order No. 845-B, 168 FERC 
¶ 61,092 (2019); Improvements to Generator Interconnection Procedures and 
Agreements, Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054, at P 1764, limited order on 
reh’g, 185 FERC ¶ 61,063 (2023), order on reh’g & clarification, Order No. 2023-
A, 186 FERC ¶ 61,199, errata notice, 188 FERC ¶ 61,134 (2024), appeals pending 
sub nom. Petition for Review, Advanced Energy United v. FERC, Nos. 23-1282, et 
al. (D.C. Cir. Oct. 6, 2023). 

--- PAGE 19 ---
 
19 
“independent entity variation” standard when considering proposals from RTOs/ISOs.43  
As additional facts and circumstances are made known, the MISO Transmission Owners 
may have additional comments.    
1. 
First Principle: “[T]o avoid even arguably affecting the States’ 
jurisdiction over generation facilities, facilities used in local distribution 
or only for the transmission of electric energy in intrastate commerce, 
or transmissions consumed by the transmitter, the Commission’s 
jurisdiction should be limited to interconnections directly to 
transmission facilities, consistent with the Commission's seven-factor 
test.”44 
As stated above, the MISO Transmission Owners urge the Commission not to 
disrupt the current state and federal jurisdictional divide.  The MISO region has been 
successfully integrating new load for decades, including large loads.  Disturbing these well-
established and successful processes for an unproven interconnection paradigm that rests 
on untested jurisdictional authority, risks delaying the interconnection of large loads and 
potentially jeopardizing the nation’s ambitious technological goals,45 national security, and 
economic interests.   
 
43  
Order No. 2003 at P 827 (“With respect to an RTO or ISO . . . we will allow it to 
seek ‘independent entity variations’ from the Final Rule . . . .  This is a balanced 
approach that recognizes that an RTO or ISO has different operating characteristics 
depending on its size and location and is less likely to act in an unduly 
discriminatory manner than a Transmission Provider that is a market participant.”); 
Order No. 2006 at PP 447, 549; Order No. 845 at P 556; Order No. 2023 at P 1764. 
44  
ANOPR at P 18 (citation omitted). 
45  
Executive Order 14318 (Accelerating Federal Permitting of Data Center 
Infrastructure).  

--- PAGE 20 ---
 
20 
2. 
Second Principle: “[C]onsistent with the Commission’s pro forma 
LGIP and LGIA, the reforms should only apply to new loads greater 
than 20 MW and, for hybrid facilities, where the load is greater than 20 
MW.  We seek comment on alternative thresholds, including whether 
such a threshold is necessary at all.”46 
Establishing any brightline threshold is a balancing act between precision and 
workability, especially as it pertains to defining “large loads.”  Experience and judgment 
play a critical role in determining that balance.  Should the Commission elect to pursue the 
reforms proposed in the ANOPR, the MISO Transmission Owners recommend that the 
Commission provide transmission providers and their stakeholders significant flexibility 
in defining large loads, as they have the technical experience and judgment to appropriately 
and reasonably weigh operational, reliability, and administrative factors that are critical to 
defining large loads.   
If the Commission moves forward with defining large loads using a MW threshold, 
the MISO Transmission Owners provide a few key considerations the Commission should 
take into account.  First, a threshold based solely on the MW size of load is too rough of a 
measure when developing a large load definition.  As the North American Electric 
Reliability Corporation (“NERC”) explained, several factors should also be considered, 
such as footprint, load ramp rates, real-time behavior and flexibility, protection systems, 
and backup power schemes.47   
 
46  
ANOPR at P 19. 
47  
Characteristics and Risks of Emerging Large Loads: Large Loads Task Force 
White Paper, North American Electronic Reliability Corporation, v (July 2025), 
https://www.nerc.com/globalassets/who-we-are/standing-
committees/rstc/3_doc_white-paper-characteristics-and-risks-of-emerging-large-
loads.pdf.  

--- PAGE 21 ---
 
21 
Second, the 20 MW threshold is too low.  NERC’s Large Load Task Force 
(“LLTF”) analyzed the reliability impacts related to emerging large loads (e.g., data centers 
(including cryptocurrency mining, and artificial intelligence (“AI”)), industrial facilities, 
and hydrogen production facilities).48  As relevant here, in November 2024, a subgroup of 
the NERC LLTF conducted an informal survey to gather feedback from participants on 
what load size should qualify as “large.”49  Importantly, NERC’s survey revealed that 
“large” may be relative to other factors, such as the voltage to which the load is 
interconnected.50  Retail tariffs may also include MW thresholds, and any proposed reform 
should complement such requirements.   
Third, any threshold in a proposed rule should distinguish between pre-existing 
large loads or those in the process of interconnecting on the one hand, and new large loads, 
on the other.  As large loads continue to seek to interconnect, any proposed rule would 
have to provide a detailed transition process, explaining when such a rule would become 
effective and how it would impact loads already at various stages of interconnection. 
 
48  
Id.  
49  
Id.  
50  
Indicative of the need for regional flexibility in this regard are two recent filings 
related to large loads.  See High Impact Load Tariff Filing of Tri-State Generation 
and Transmission Association, Inc., at 12, Docket No. ER25-3316-000 (Aug. 28, 
2025); Submission of Tariff Revisions to Add the High Impact Large Load 
Processes and High Impact Large Load Generation Assessment of Southwest 
Power Pool, Inc., Docket No. ER26-247-000 (Oct. 24, 2025).  Tri-State Generation 
and Transmission Association, Inc. (“Tri-State”) and SPP both recently submitted 
revisions to their respective Tariffs related high impact large loads.  The 
transmission providers proposed different definitions for large loads based on their 
regional circumstances and operational experience.   

--- PAGE 22 ---
 
22 
As shown above, there are many factors that should be considered in defining large 
loads.51  Accordingly, should the Commission proceed with the proposed reforms, the 
MISO Transmission Owners again urge the Commission to provide as much flexibility as 
possible in determining the appropriate criteria and threshold for any of the ANOPR’s 
interconnection-related rules.    
3. 
Third Principle: “[T]o the extent practicable, load and hybrid facilities 
should be studied together with generating facilities.  Such an approach 
will allow for efficient siting of loads and generating facilities and 
thereby minimize the need for costly network upgrades.  For example, 
siting a large load near or at the same point of interconnection as a new 
generating facility could reduce the network upgrades needed to 
interconnect only the load or only the generating facility.”52 
In order to comment meaningfully on the Third Principle, more information is 
needed.  In the MISO region, load integration and generation interconnection are studied 
separately because they have separate impacts on the bulk electric system.  This is vitally 
important for planning and reliability purposes, as MISO and its transmission owners need 
to be able to understand the reliability implications of increasing both sides of the equation.  
Relatedly, for operational visibility, load and generation are also metered separately.  Load 
and generation also have distinct cost allocation methodologies with respect to necessary 
transmission upgrades—load pays for transmission upgrades through their transmission 
 
51  
Large Loads Co-Located at Generating Facilities, Prepared Remarks of Jennifer 
Curran on Behalf of the Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc., Docket 
No. AD25-8-000, at 14 (“[U]niversal definition of ‘large load’ should not be based 
solely on size.  Instead, MISO recommends a hybrid approach to determining what 
constitutes a ‘large load.’  The hybrid approach could consist of: (i) NERC 
registration or NERC Reliability Standards development; and (ii) allowing 
ISO/RTOs to determine specific minimum thresholds to support market registration 
and application processes that fit the unique needs of their footprints.”). 
52  
ANOPR at P 20. 

--- PAGE 23 ---
 
23 
charges under Schedule 9 of the MISO Tariff and generators generally pay the “but for” 
costs associated with their interconnection.  Under these existing processes, large loads are 
efficiently and reliably integrated into the MISO region.   Any reform proposed in relation 
to this principle should complement these current practices and provide regional flexibility.   
4. 
Fourth Principle: “[L]ike generating facilities, load and hybrid 
facilities should be subject to standardized study deposits, readiness 
requirements, and withdrawal penalties.  These provisions deter 
speculative projects and provide transmission providers with more 
useful information to more accurately forecast demand on their systems. 
We seek comment on the extent to which the existing study deposits, 
readiness requirements, and withdrawal penalties can be adopted. We 
also seek comment on whether additional commitments or financial 
penalties would be appropriate.”53 
This is another area where supporting flexibility would be beneficial before crafting 
any one-size-fits-all solution.  Speculative load requests do exist, but to deter speculative 
load requests, many transmission owners and LSEs already require financial commitments 
from load customers to develop the transmission facilities needed to serve new large loads.  
Others are actively pursuing adding similar commitments through their state regulators.  
Any reforms proposed in furtherance of the Fourth Principle should complement, and avoid 
duplicating, these financial and other readiness requirements.    
5. 
Fifth Principle: “[H]ybrid facilities should be studied based on the 
amount of injection and/or withdrawal rights requested.  For example, a 
hybrid facility consisting of a 500 MW load and a 600 MW generating 
facility may seek no withdrawal rights and 100 MW of injection rights.  
This provides incentives for co-location with new generation facilities 
and ensures efficient buildout of the transmission system.”54 
The Commission recently recognized in its Order to Show Cause on co-location of 
large loads at generating facilities in PJM that “the issue of co-location will often depend 
 
53  
Id. at P 21. 
54  
Id. at P 22 (citation omitted). 

--- PAGE 24 ---
 
24 
heavily on the specific facts and circumstances presented in particular situations,” 
including jurisdictional considerations.55  Given the limited facts in the Fifth Principle, the 
MISO Transmission Owners offer these high-level comments.  First, large load owners 
should only be able to co-locate and contract for power directly from generators to the 
extent state laws and regulations allow.  Second, it is critical to both system planning and 
operational awareness that load and generation are studied and metered separately, on a 
gross rather than a net basis.  Third, it is also critical for cost allocation purposes that load 
and generation are metered separately and load is treated as an in-front-of-the-meter 
customer because a hybrid facility that is not fully islanded from the transmission system 
is still benefitting from the transmission system.56      
 
55  
PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 190 FERC ¶ 61,115, at P 68 (2025).  
56  
See, e.g., Amtrak v. PPL Elec. Utils. Corp., 173 FERC ¶ 61,043 (2020) (rejecting 
Amtrak’s cost causation arguments that sought to lower its transmission charges 
based on actual use of the transmission system, finding that Amtrak was 
appropriately being charged network service under the PJM tariff for its entire load 
because Amtrak’s load had been designated as network load and was being served 
by the output of a designated Network Resource); Order No. 888-A at 30,257 
(finding that a split system (i.e., division of a discrete load between point-to-point 
and network services) creates the potential for a customer to evade some or all of 
its load ratio share cost responsibility for network services by using behind the 
meter generation during monthly peaks to reduce its load ratio share below its 
actual, typical monthly peak usage, resulting in a rate that is subsidized by other 
network customers); id. at 30,259 (explaining that “splitting a discrete load is 
antithetical to the concept of network service” because “a load at a discrete point of 
delivery cannot be partially integrated—it is either fully integrated or not 
integrated”); Idaho Power Co., 106 FERC ¶ 61,329 (2004) (rejecting Bonneville 
Power Administration’s attempt to remove certain of its load from its load ratio 
share); Ameren Servs. Co. v. Prairieland Energy Inc., 131 FERC ¶ 61,125 (2010) 
(finding that network customer failed to comply with the tariff by not designating 
its total load as network load); Arizona Pub. Serv. Co., 151 FERC ¶ 61,191 (2015) 
(finding that a network customer’s request to designate less than its entire load as 
network load violated both the transmission provider’s open access transmission 
tariff and longstanding Commission policy, which require network customers to 
designate their entire load as network load to receive network). 

--- PAGE 25 ---
 
25 
6. 
Sixth Principle: “[A]ny hybrid interconnection shall be required to 
install the system protection facilities necessary to prevent unauthorized 
injections or withdrawals that exceed the respective rights.  We seek 
comment on whether other operational limitations should be considered.  
We also seek comment on the minimum technical requirements for such 
system protection facilities, whether a hybrid interconnection customer 
should be subject to penalties for unauthorized injections or 
withdrawals, how any such penalties should be designed, and how such 
penalties should be allocated to other transmission customers.”57 
While the MISO Transmission Owners are not opposed to hybrid facilities being 
required to install protective relay equipment to prevent unauthorized injections or 
withdrawals, the MISO Transmission Owners caution the Commission that system 
protection facilities do not guarantee the prevention of unauthorized injections or 
withdrawals.  This is one of the reasons that it is imperative from a reliability perspective 
that the load and generation of a hybrid facility are studied and metered separately.  Without 
separate metering for load and generation, a large hybrid facility could present operational 
and system reliability concerns with the potential, during high-stress periods, for thermal 
overloads on particular lines.  
In addition, the MISO Transmission Owners have concerns about the effectiveness 
of financial penalties to deter unauthorized injections or withdrawals.  In particular, 
financial penalties may not be sufficient to deter such behavior, and they do not resolve the 
underlying reliability harms that would result from unauthorized injections or withdrawals.  
Thus, on this principle, the MISO Transmission Owners support flexibility for retail 
jurisdictions to devise effective methods to deter unauthorized injections or withdrawals. 
 
57  
ANOPR at P 23. 

--- PAGE 26 ---
 
26 
7. 
Seventh Principle: “[T]he interconnection study of large loads that 
agree to be curtailable and hybrid facilities that agree to be curtailable 
and dispatchable should be expedited.  The system operator’s ability to 
control such facilities through curtailment and/or dispatch must be 
sufficient for the system operator to integrate the facility into both 
operations and system planning.  This ensures the timely and orderly 
addition of large loads to the transmission system in a safe, reliable, and 
non-discriminatory manner.  We seek comment on whether this should 
be accomplished through a serial interconnection study process or by 
some other means.  We also seek comment on appropriate deadlines for 
such an expedited study process, including whether such studies can be 
completed in 60 days.”58 
In order to comment meaningfully on the Seventh Principle, more information is 
needed.  It is unclear under what circumstances large loads would be allowed to be 
curtailable or hybrid facilities would be curtailable/dispatchable.  Is this an alternative 
when there is insufficient generation to serve such loads? Or is it related to insufficient 
transmission?  Would the arrangement be temporary or permanent?  The ANOPR does not 
provide an explanation.  Also, does the load pose heightened reliability risks?  Without 
such information it is difficult for the MISO Transmission Owners to meaningfully 
comment.  Lastly, it is unclear whether there would be significant demand for such a 
service, given the electricity needs of many large loads.   
8. 
Eighth Principle: “[L]oad and hybrid facilities should be responsible 
for 100% of the network upgrades that they are assigned through the 
interconnection studies.  We seek comment on whether such costs 
should be offset through a crediting mechanism and, if so, over how 
many years.”59 
First, requiring direct assignment of upgrade costs to interconnecting load would 
mark a fundamental shift when there is no clear basis or purpose for doing so.  The 
Commission should recognize this, and clarify that the ANOPR proposal was not intended 
 
58  
Id. at P 24. 
59  
Id. at P 25. 

--- PAGE 27 ---
 
27 
to suggest such a fundamental shift with the potential of forcing transmission owners to 
forgo meaningful compensation.60  The MISO Transmission Owners strongly urge the 
Commission to avoid mandating such transformational reforms that could create untenable 
circumstances.  Instead, the regions and individual utilities should be allowed to continue 
focusing on making existing processes more efficient and ensuring reliable and affordable 
operation of the grid.  This approach will also respect the roles of the local utility and state 
regulators in developing approaches to the interconnection of large load, recognizing that 
the large loads can present unique challenges that may be best addressed with flexible 
approaches, including ones to mitigate against unjust cost shifting (e.g., forms of financial 
assurance). 
In addition, the basis for the Commission’s decision in Order No. 2003 to have 
generators provide the initial funding for network upgrades is not applicable to load.  Under 
long-standing Commission precedent, the costs of network upgrades required to 
interconnect load are allocated to transmission customers through transmission rates under 
Schedule 9 of the MISO Tariff.  LSEs, in turn, pass on those costs to their retail customers.  
It is unclear why or how crediting would be appropriate in this circumstance.  
 
60  
The MISO Transmission Owners request that the Commission avoid any funding 
mechanism that would create financial risks and ultimately increase costs for 
customers.  See Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., Response of the MISO 
Transmission Owners to the Order to Show Cause, Docket No. EL24-80-000 (Sep. 
11, 2024) (describing financial risks of various funding mechanisms).  If the 
Commission adopts direct assignment, the MISO Transmission Owners request that 
the Commission allow transmission providers to request deviations as needed to 
support a safe and reliable system.  See supra note 63.  

--- PAGE 28 ---
 
28 
9. 
Ninth Principle: “[T]o the extent the interconnection customer is not 
the transmission owner, the interconnection customer shall be afforded 
the same (or equivalent) option to build as currently provided to 
generator interconnection customers.”61 
Consistent with Order No. 845, the MISO Tariff’s pro forma GIA62 provides a 
generator interconnection customer with the unilateral option to build the transmission 
owner’s interconnection facilities and stand-alone network upgrades with accepted 
independent entity variations.63  While the MISO Transmission Owners oppose extending 
the option to build to large load owners, if the Commission ultimately determines to extend 
this option, the MISO Transmission Owners request that the Commission allow, as it did 
in Order No. 845, transmission providers to request deviations from any final rule.   
Large load owners typically have not been involved in construction of transmission 
facilities and are not in the same position as transmission owners when it comes to 
knowledge and expertise regarding transmission facilities.  While large load owners may 
be sophisticated in other technical fields, there is no demonstration that these customers 
would bring similar experience to the construction of integrated network transmission 
facilities to construct.  Accordingly, the MISO Transmission Owners do not support 
providing large loads with the option to build.  
If the Commission does offer an option to build to large loads, the MISO 
Transmission Owners suggest the Commission, consistent with Order No. 845 also: 
(1) limit the option to build to the construction of transmission owner’s interconnection 
 
61  
ANOPR at P 26. 
62  
See MISO Tariff, Attachment X, Appendix 6, Articles 5.1.3, 5.2. 
63  
Midcontinent Ind. Sys. Operator, Inc., 169 FERC ¶ 61,221, at P 44 (2019) 
(accepting MISO’s proposed independent entity variation to reconcile the option to 
build with transmission owner initial funding in the MISO Tariff).  

--- PAGE 29 ---
 
29 
facilities and stand-alone network upgrades; (2) require all facilities to be built to the 
standards and specifications provided in advance by the transmission owners; and (3) give 
the transmission owner the right to approve the engineering design, equipment acceptance 
tests, and construction.64  
10. 
Tenth Principle: “[A]n existing generating facility that seeks to enter a 
partial suspension to serve a new load at the same location must go 
through a system support resource (SSR)/reliability must run (RMR) 
type study.  The study must consider system conditions, including 
forecasted load growth, at least three years after the proposed 
suspension date.  The partial suspension can only proceed after any 
network upgrades needed to ensure reliability are placed into service.  
Any such network upgrades shall be the responsibility of the generating 
facility. We invite comments on whether and how resource adequacy 
should be considered in the SSR/RMR type study.”65 
The MISO Transmission Owners agree that, as a general matter, existing generation 
that enters into a co-location arrangement with a large load owner should be studied, 
particularly with respect to reliability impacts and impacts on the transmission system.  The 
scope and procedures of such a study may need to be flexible to accommodate any unique 
features of individual arrangements.  For example, MISO’s SSR studies and related 
provisions only apply in situations where a generator completely disconnects from the grid 
because it is suspending operations or is retiring.  If an existing generation resource seeking 
to co-locate with a large load owner plans to completely disconnect from the transmission 
system to serve that load, an SSR study may be required consistent with MISO’s Tariff.66  
If that existing generation resource instead remains connected synchronously to the 
transmission system, such an arrangement would likely not implicate the same reliability 
 
64  
Order No. 845 at PP 85, 91, 110. 
65  
ANOPR at P 27. 
66  
MISO Tariff, section 38.2.7. 

--- PAGE 30 ---
 
30 
concerns associated with a generator completely disconnecting from the transmission 
system, warranting a different type of study. 
With respect to resource adequacy, the MISO Transmission Owners recognize that 
states play a leading role in this area, particularly in MISO.67  Therefore, any decisions 
regarding whether a generator could stop serving LSE load in order to serve a large load 
entity would likely come before a state commission.   
Regarding who bears responsibility (cost or construction or something else) for any 
network upgrades associated with a co-location arrangement as described above, the MISO 
Transmission Owners caution that such assignment of any responsibility should be 
situation-specific.  For example, in some instances, a network upgrade may not be needed 
to solve a NERC reliability violation caused by a generator disconnecting from the 
transmission system.  Rather, consistent with MISO’s SSR provisions, an alternative such 
as redispatch/reconfiguration based on MISO instruction or remedial action plans may be 
 
67  
Midwest Indep. Transmission Sys. Operator, Inc., 122 FERC ¶ 61,283, at P 68 
(2008) (“[W]e agree . . . that the states should play a central role in developing 
resource adequacy policies for the region. . . . [T]he fact that we have jurisdiction 
in this area does not mean that resource adequacy proposals cannot be developed 
by the states ‘in the first instance.’”); Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 170 
FERC ¶ 61,215, at PP 108 (2020) (“We reiterate that state and local authorities play 
an active role in ensuring resource adequacy, even those states with retail 
competition (i.e., Illinois and Michigan).”), 118 (“MISO supports the independent 
authority of state regulators for resource adequacy and facilitates resource adequacy 
goals with state regulators that have decision-making authority over the amount and 
types of resources that are necessary to meet shared objectives.”); see also 
Comments of Todd Ramey on Behalf of Midcontinent ISO Inc., Docket No. AD25- 
7-000, at 12 (May 28, 2025) (“Since MISO’s inception, deference has been made 
to the jurisdictional authority of the states and other [Relevant Electric Retail Rate 
Authority] with respect to resource adequacy rights and responsibilities that 
[Relevant Electric Retail Rate Authorities] take seriously.”). 

--- PAGE 31 ---
 
31 
appropriate.68  Even if a network upgrade is needed to address a generator disconnecting, 
such an upgrade may already have been identified in MISO’s MTEP to address unrelated 
transmission issues.  In that case, according to MISO’s SSR provisions, such costs would 
generally not be allocated to the generator but would rather flow through Attachment FF 
of the MISO Tariff as usual.69 
11. 
Eleventh Principle: “[U]tilities serving large loads, including those at 
hybrid facilities, should be responsible for transmission service based 
on their withdrawal rights, as that value amount reflects the quantity of 
capacity and energy that is being transmitted across the transmission 
system to the load.”70   
See comments on the Twelfth Principle.   
 
12. 
Twelfth Principle: “[U]tilities serving large loads, including those at 
hybrid facilities, should be responsible for ancillary services based on 
peak demand, without consideration of any co-located generation.  Any 
co-located generating facilities will similarly be fully compensated for 
the provision of ancillary services.”71 
The Eleventh and Twelfth Principles, if implemented, would mark a significant 
departure from MISO’s current cost allocation methodologies for transmission and 
ancillary services, not to mention longstanding Commission precedent.  Under Schedule 9 
of MISO’s Tariff, network service costs are based on peak load.72  The Eleventh Principle 
appears to net the load and generation for purposes of establishing the transmission service 
 
68  
MISO Tariff, section 38.2.7.c 
69  
Id., section 38.2.7.e.iii; id., Attachment FF. 
70  
ANOPR at P 28. 
71  
Id. at P 29. 
72  
MISO Tariff, Schedule 9 (Network Integration Transmission Service), section 3(a). 

--- PAGE 32 ---
 
32 
requirements, which is not permitted by MISO’s Tariff.73  Regarding ancillary services, 
load pays for ancillary services based on use.74  In the day-ahead and real-time operating 
reserve markets, the costs for ancillary services products (e.g., spinning, supplemental, 
regulation and short-term reserves) are paid by the load on an hourly basis.75  The ancillary 
services needed for a reserve zone are procured from generation in that reserve zone and 
the costs are allocated to load based on their load ratio share in the reserve zone.76   
In general, the MISO Transmission Owners are concerned that the Eleventh and 
Twelfth Principles raise significant cost allocation concerns, as well as undue 
discrimination concerns.  First, consistent with Order No. 888, MISO’s Tariff allows for 
two types of transmission service: network service and point-to-point service.  MISO also 
does not permit the netting of load and generation for purposes of establishing the 
transmission service requirements.  To the extent the Eleventh Principle is attempting to 
change these rules for large loads, the MISO Transmission Owners have concerns that the 
proposed cost allocation would not be roughly commensurate with the benefits to large 
loads.  Second, the ANOPR does not explain why load and large loads/hybrid facilities are 
not similarly situated such that large loads/hybrid facilities may be treated differently.  
 
73  
Id., Schedule 9 (Network Integration Transmission Service), section 1. 
74  
Id., Schedule 3 (Regulating Reserve), section III; id., Schedule 5 (Spinning 
Reserve), section III; id., Schedule 6 (Supplemental Reserve), section III.  
75  
Id., Schedule 5 (Spinning Reserve), section II & Schedule 51 (Short-Term 
Reserve), section II. 
76  
Id., Schedule 3 (Regulating Reserve), section III; id., Schedule 5 (Spinning 
Reserve), section III; id., Schedule 6 (Supplemental Reserve), section III. 

--- PAGE 33 ---
 
33 
Lastly, the MISO Transmission Owners would be opposed to the Eleventh Principle to the 
extent it would dictate whether a retail sale has occurred, which is impermissible.77        
13. 
Thirteenth Principle: “[T]here must be a plan to implement these 
proposed reforms.  We seek comment on appropriate transition plans, 
including the treatment of large load interconnections that are already 
being studied for interconnection.”78  
For the reasons explained throughout, the MISO Transmission Owners oppose a 
generic, one-sized approach to interconnecting large load.  Time spent participating in and 
complying with any such rulemaking is time not spent on supporting load growth in the 
region.  Another alternative to taking generic action is to issue a policy statement to guide 
the industry regarding large load interconnections.  Such action would allow the 
Commission to support and guide the industry in crafting solutions tailored to their regions.   
However, if the Commission does elect to pursue any of the ANOPR reforms, the 
MISO Transmission Owners respectfully request that any compliance or transition period 
clearly take into account the magnitude and complexity of the reforms being contemplated.  
The more significant the reforms, the greater the need for a longer compliance period to 
meet with stakeholders, establish new processes, and develop new technological 
capabilities, along with a flexible implementation and transition period.  In addition, any 
such reforms should be solely limited to new load additions or future requests to increase 
the size of existing loads.  Existing or new large load additions that are currently being 
considered should also be grandfathered and not subject to the reforms.  For example, 
 
77  
Ind. Mun. Power Agency v. PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 172 FERC ¶ 61,243, at 
P 94 (2020) (clarifying that an RTO/ISO cannot determine whether a state-
jurisdictional retail sale has occurred, whether by means of monthly netting or 
otherwise, as that is within the jurisdiction of the states). 
78  
ANOPR at P 30. 

--- PAGE 34 ---
 
34 
similar to the Commission’s approach in Order No. 2023, the Commission should consider 
the date upon which any agreements to increase existing load or to interconnect new load 
were entered into when determining the applicability of any reforms.79  At minimum, 
however, the MISO Transmission Owners would expect a time period of at least one year 
to have any reforms become effective to permit sufficient time to meet with stakeholders, 
establish new processes, and develop new technological capabilities.   
14. 
Fourteenth Principle: “[U]tilities serving large loads must meet all 
applicable NERC reliability standards and OATT provisions.  Utilities 
and we must be prepared to revise large load interconnection procedures 
and agreements, as necessary.  NERC should review its reliability 
standards to determine if new registration categories or new or modified 
reliability standards are required to ensure reliability of the BES.”80 
The MISO Transmission Owners support ensuring that large loads are 
interconnected to the grid in a safe and reliable manner.  NERC has already begun 
examining these issues through its LLTF which has issued preliminary guidance for 
comment from stakeholders.81  These ongoing efforts are critical to supporting the work of 
grid operators as they encounter new and emerging risks that are unique to different parts 
of the grid.  To the extent any new standards are proposed from such efforts, the MISO 
Transmission Owners urge the Commission to limit such standards to new loads or 
increases in existing loads and to consider thoughtfully any input provided by NERC, 
 
79  
See generally Order No. 2023 at PP 855, 865-69. 
80  
ANOPR at P 31. 
81  
Preliminary DRAFT Reliability Guideline: Risk Mitigation for Emerging Large 
Loads, North American Electric Reliability Corporation (May 2026), 
https://www.nerc.com/globalassets/who-we-are/standing-committees/ 
rstc/draft_reliabilityguideline_riskmitigationforemerginglargeloads.pdf.   

--- PAGE 35 ---
 
35 
including input concerning the time that NERC may need to develop additional standards 
to address large load interconnections.  
III. 
COMMUNICATIONS 
The MISO Transmission Owners request that all correspondence, communications, 
pleadings, and other documents related to this proceeding be addressed to: 
Wendy N. Reed 
Anna Fernandez 
Abraham F. Johns III 
WRIGHT & TALISMAN, P.C. 
1200 G Street, N.W., Suite 600 
Washington, DC  20005-3898 
(202) 393-1200 
reed@wrightlaw.com 
fernandez@wrightlaw.com 
johns@wrightlaw.com 
IV. 
CONCLUSION 
 
The MISO Transmission Owners respectfully request that the Commission 
consider these comments in any future rulemaking in this proceeding. 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 /s/ Wendy N. Reed 
 
 
Wendy N. Reed 
Anna Fernandez 
Abraham F. Johns III 
WRIGHT & TALISMAN, P.C. 
1200 G Street, N.W., Suite 600 
Washington, DC  20005-3898 
 
Attorneys for  
The MISO Transmission Owners 
 
November 21, 2025 
 
