--- PAGE 1 ---
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System 
) 
) 
) 
) 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
REPLY COMMENTS OF 
THE INDEPENDENT MARKET MONITOR FOR PJM 
Pursuant to Rule 211 of the Commission’s Rules and Regulations,1 and the Notice of 
Inviting Comments issued in the proceeding on October 27, 2025 (“Notice”), Monitoring 
Analytics, LLC, acting in its capacity as the Independent Market Monitor (“Market Monitor”) 
for PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (“PJM”),2 submits these Reply Comments. The Reply 
Comments respond to selected comments submitted on or around November 14, 2025, that 
respond to the Notice and the attached Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking 
(“ANOPR”).3 Commenters with specific proposals generally seek to avoid the only just, 
reasonable and not unduly discriminatory action available to the Commission that will 
protect reliability and affordability for existing customers which is to provide clear incentives 
to large new data center loads to get to market quickly and reliably and to refuse to permit 
reliability to be undermined by adding large new data center loads without corresponding 
                                                          
1 
18 CFR § 385.211 (2025). 
2 
Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined have the meaning used in the PJM Open 
Access Transmission Tariff (“OATT”), the PJM Operating Agreement (“OA”) or the PJM Reliability 
Assurance Agreement (“RAA”). 
3  
The Notice issued in response to a proposed advanced notice of proposed rulemaking (“ANOPR”) 
released by the Secretary of Energy on October 23, 2025, pursuant to section 403 of the Department 
of Energy Organization Act, for consideration and final action by the Commission. 

--- PAGE 2 ---
- 2 - 
new generation. Advocates for half measures based on pretending that future service can be 
managed with blackouts and price spikes are at best misguided. Clear and immediate action 
is needed to protect the public interest while proceeding with the efficient and orderly 
interconnection of new data center loads.  
The Market Monitor’s comments are specifically about the issues in PJM markets. 
I. REPLY COMMENTS 
A. What Is the Issue? 
The Secretary of Energy’s cover letter to the ANOPR states:4 
To usher in a new era of American prosperity, we must ensure all 
Americans and domestic industries have access to affordable, 
reliable, and secure electricity. To do this, large loads, including AI 
data centers, served by public utilities must be able to connect to 
the transmission system in a timely, orderly, and non-
discriminatory manner. This is an urgent issue that requires 
prompt attention.  
The Market Monitor supports the stated goals of the Secretary of Energy. 
More specifically, the purpose of the ANOPR is:5 
to initiate rulemaking procedures and consider this Advance 
Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANOPR) presenting potential 
reforms to ensure the timely and orderly interconnection of large 
loads [fn omitted] to the transmission system. [fn omitted]  
The Market Monitor supports the stated purpose of the ANOPR which, in the case of 
PJM, is the timely and orderly interconnection of large loads to the PJM system. The ANOPR 
makes clear (at P 2) that the issue is the interconnection of large new data center loads. 
The Market Monitor’s related Complaint seeks an order finding that PJM has the 
authority to add large new data center loads only when they can be served reliably as defined 
                                                          
4  
See Chris Wright, Secretary of Energy, Cover Letter for ANOPR (October 23, 2025) at 1. 
5  
ANOPR at P 1. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
- 3 - 
both by transmission and capacity adequacy, and directing PJM to file tariff language stating 
this explicitly.6 The Complaint does not propose any specific complete solution that could be 
implemented if the Commission grants the Complaint, e.g. "bring your own new generation.” 
The Complaint is intended to provide more optionality to the PJM Board as it decides how 
to address these difficult and complex issues. The Complaint is consistent with the objectives 
of the ANOPR but recognizes that PJM markets face an urgent need for immediate 
clarification of PJM’s authority over the interconnection of large new data center loads.  
B. Load Queue 
The ANOPR reviews the history of open access for generators with an appropriate 
emphasis on the fact that open and nondiscriminatory access is essential for competitive 
markets. 
The key sentence in the ANOPR (at P 12) states:   
In light of the unprecedented current and expected growth of large 
loads seeking to interconnect to the transmission system, and to 
provide open access and nondiscriminatory access to the 
transmission system, it has become necessary to standardize 
interconnection procedures and agreements for such loads, 
including those seeking to share a point of interconnection with 
new or existing generation facilities (hybrid facilities). 
The ANOPR appropriately recognizes that there is a need for a load queue that would 
include standardized rules and criteria to ensure nondiscriminatory access to reliable service. 
An efficient means for creating a load queue would be to extend the general structure of the 
generator interconnection process to large new data center loads, with a goal of efficient and 
timely processing. The Market Monitor agrees that large load additions should be subject to 
standard rules and deposit requirements to provide disincentives to speculative projects. The 
best incentive to bring only real projects is to provide an expedited option to bring your own 
                                                          
6  
See Independent Market Monitor for PJM v. PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Docket No. EL26-30-000 
(November 25, 2025) (“Complaint”). 

--- PAGE 4 ---
- 4 - 
new generation. This incentive would be much stronger and more effective and more focused 
on a real solution than requiring deposits. Open access for both generation and load is 
essential to competitive markets. The ANOPR is not explicit on whether this means a load 
queue. The ANOPR is not explicit on whether interconnection to the transmission system 
means the provision of reliable service. Any definition of a load queue should include the 
opportunity for faster interconnection if generation and load are added together to ensure 
reliability. 
The ANOPR appears to largely ignore the central issue facing PJM which is that there 
is not enough generating capacity to reliably serve the large loads that want to be online 
quickly. The logical links between the principles stated in the ANOPR and the stated problem 
are attenuated. The ANOPR does not propose to include a requirement in the interconnection 
procedures for large loads, that interconnection of large loads to the grid must be predicated 
on the ability to provide reliable service which in turn requires generation capacity which in 
turn means that there should be a load queue. The NOPR should include such a requirement. 
When NERC defines reliability, the definition is about the ability to serve load under a wide 
range of conditions. NERC’s definition of reliability includes both generation and 
transmission. 
Some comments (e.g. Exelon) recognize that adequate generating capacity is the core 
issue.7 Exelon’s position is that a return to cost of service regulation that would allow Exelon 
to build generation under that outdated regulatory paradigm would solve the problem, 
although they do not explain whether that is an efficient or competitive approach. Exelon’s 
proposed return to an archaic approach would impose the costs and risks on existing 
electricity customers. This is not the time to abandon competition policy. The ANOPR should 
                                                          
7  
See, e.g., Comments of Exelon Corporation, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (November 21, 2025) (“Exelon 
Comments”). 

--- PAGE 5 ---
- 5 - 
support PJM’s competitive markets and avoid a return to cost of service regulation because 
it is inefficient and high cost. 
1. Point of Interconnection. 
The actual point of interconnection is only an issue if the Commission wants to 
address jurisdictional issues that are not central to the identified issue of how to efficiently 
interconnect large new data center loads. The actual point of interconnection only matters in 
an impossible to resolve discussion about what is truly transmission and what is not. PJM’s 
comments raise related issues (at 4).8 The actual point of interconnection is not relevant to the 
impact of adding large new data center loads on PJM wholesale power market costs. 
Regardless of whether a large new data center load is connected to the distribution, 
subtransmission, or transmission system, there must be enough generating capacity in the 
PJM wholesale markets to serve them reliably. 
2. Relevant Size 
The ANOPR states that reforms should apply only to new loads greater than 20 MW.  
The apparent reason for selecting 20 MW is that 20 MW is the threshold for the generator 
interconnection rules. There is no reason to simply extend the generator threshold to loads. 
Generators have generally been very large compared to individual loads. While there is no 
completely objective threshold for large new data center loads, the threshold should be no 
higher than five MW. Five MW is a very significant level of load at a single point in the PJM 
markets. In addition, if the threshold is set at the relatively high level of 20 MW, it would 
create an incentive to break up data center points of interconnection to smaller MW levels in 
order to avoid rules governing interconnection. If the point is to ensure reliable service to 
large new data center loads while maintaining reliable service to existing customers, the level 
                                                          
8  
See Initial Comments of PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Docket No. RM26-4-000 (November 21, 2025) 
(“PJM Comments”).  

--- PAGE 6 ---
- 6 - 
of load at a single point of interconnection is less significant than the total load being added 
to the PJM grid. The suggestion that the cutoff for the load queue should be 200 MW is an 
attempt to avoid the issue, would miss many data centers and would permit gaming of the 
rules to avoid the queue.9 
The load queue should be limited to large new data center loads. It is not unduly 
discriminatory to limit the queue to data centers. It is clear in PJM that large data center loads 
are the source of the current issues in PJM and need to be addressed directly. Another benefit 
of limiting the queue to data centers is that the MW cutoff for load size becomes less of an 
issue. It is essential to distinguish between organic load growth in PJM, including residential, 
commercial and industrial loads, which would have been handled by normal market 
development and the unique and unprecedented addition of large new data centers. 
3. Load and Generation 
A load queue would provide incentives for load to locate where it can be served 
efficiently. The point of the load queue is to recognize that load cannot be served without 
generation and that load should have the option of an expedited interconnection process if 
the load brings new generation. The Market Monitor agrees that load should be studied 
together with generating facilities in order to facilitate efficient siting and minimize system 
upgrade costs.  
C. Jurisdiction 
The Market Monitor supports what the Market Monitor believes to be the broad intent 
of the ANOPR, to establish rules for a load queue that would include standardized rules and 
criteria to ensure nondiscriminatory access to reliable service. However, the ANOPR 
somewhat surprisingly concludes that these standardized rules require changes to the 
                                                          
9  
See Comments of the Indicated PJM Transmission Owners (“TOs”), Docket No. RM26-4-000 
(November 21, 2025) at 2 (“PJM TOs’ Comments”). 

--- PAGE 7 ---
- 7 - 
Commission’s approach to jurisdictional issues. There are significant comments in response 
to this discussion that dispute the statements about jurisdictional authority.10 The issue about 
the interconnection of large loads does not need to be a jurisdictional issue and it would be a 
mistake to let the discussion devolve into a jurisdictional debate while PJM faces significant 
and immediate reliability and market issues. The Market Monitor’s view is that there is a 
market based path forward to reliably serving large new data center loads that does not 
require a change in jurisdictional authorities or a lengthy and contentious debate about 
jurisdiction. 
In order to provide reliable service to customers in PJM, customers must be 
interconnected to the distribution, subtransmission, or transmission lines at the customers’ 
locations which are in turn interconnected to, or part of, the transmission system which in 
turn is connected to generation resources. The system only works if these pieces work 
together. It is not possible or meaningful for an EDC to sign up large new data center loads 
pursuant to a vaguely defined obligation to serve if there is not enough generation in the PJM 
market to serve those loads reliably. The actual direct interconnection processes are currently 
managed by EDCs and TOs. State regulators have the authority over the local terms and 
conditions of service, including modifying or creating tariffs to protect other customers from 
bearing the local costs of interconnecting large new data center loads. However, regardless 
of the efforts of state regulators in crafting such tariffs, state regulators cannot protect retail 
customers from the impact of adding large new data center loads on PJM wholesale market 
prices for capacity, energy and reserves and on system reliability.11 
                                                          
10  
See, e.g., PJM Comments; Initial Comments of the National Association of Regulatory Utility 
Commissioners, (“NARUC Comments”)  RM26-4-000, (November 21, 2025);  Motion to Intervene 
and Initial Comments of the National Association of State Utility Consumer Advocates, RM26-4-000 
(November 21, 2025).  
11  
See Comments of the Independent Market Monitor for PJM Docket No. ER25-3492-000 (October 14, 
2025). 

--- PAGE 8 ---
- 8 - 
The PJM queue for large data center loads does not need to impinge on state/retail 
jurisdictional authority. The criteria for the PJM queue could be focused on the very specific 
question of whether the load when interconnected can be served reliably. Reliable service 
means that there is adequate capacity to meet the load including a reserve margin. The 
current failure to impose a reliability requirement has led to large increases in capacity 
market prices, but also in energy market prices and in transmission costs. The combination 
of limiting the queue to large data centers and to the requirement for reliable wholesale 
service also minimizes both the jurisdictional issues and some of the other complexities raised 
in the PJM comments.12 
Access to the transmission system is not the central issue in the PJM markets. The issue 
is reliable service. Reliable service requires transmission and generation. The problem is that 
there is not enough generation capacity in PJM to serve all the large new data center loads 
that want reliable service. PJM has not previously had to face the question of whether PJM’s 
commitment to reliability means that PJM has the authority to create a load queue when there 
is not enough generation capacity because PJM has always had more than enough generation 
capacity. The solutions need to address the problem directly. 
To the extent that the ANOPR’s jurisdictional arguments are a mechanism to allow 
co-located load in the narrow sense, that is another reason to avoid the jurisdictional issues. 
Co-located load is simply a way to wish away the reliability issue and more importantly to 
undermine the PJM markets and impose unacceptably large reliability and monetary costs 
on all other PJM customers. Constellation’s comments here and in the co-location docket are 
perfect illustrations of the irredeemable flaws in the co-location approach.13 The Commission 
should reject the co-location option as inconsistent with PJM’s competitive markets, 
                                                          
12  
PJM Comments. 
13  
See Supporting Comments of Constellation Energy Generation, LLC (November 21, 2025) 
(“Constellation Comments”). 

--- PAGE 9 ---
- 9 - 
inconsistent with just and reasonable rates, and inconsistent with the goal of the ANOPR to 
ensure the timely and orderly interconnection of large loads. It would not be orderly to ignore 
the reliability and cost shifting issues that the co-located option would create. Simply shifting 
the reliability shortfalls to all other customers while creating reliability for large new data 
center loads is not consistent with the stated purpose of the ANOPR. 
To the extent that the Commission believes that there are discriminatory practices by 
EDCs and TOs that impinge on competitive markets, those issues can and should be 
addressed promptly. Complaints by Constellation and others about such alleged practices 
arose in the co-location discussions and were primarily about those underlying disputes 
rather than about discriminatory behavior by TOs. Those issues do not require a load queue 
and do not need to be included in a resolution of how to manage the interconnection of large 
new data center loads. Nonetheless, it is not acceptable for TOs to discriminate against any 
load or generation that wants to interconnect.  
D. Other ANOPR Issues 
1. Curtailable Loads 
The ANOPR states that the interconnection of large new curtailable loads that agree 
to be curtailable should be expedited.  
Market participants have made it clear that curtailable means very different things, 
depending on the interests represented. The Constellation proposal in the CIFP process 
proposed extremely limited curtailments, consistent only with the capability of already 
existing backup diesel generator capacity at the data centers.14 In general, it seems clear that 
data centers do not want to be curtailable in any significant way. Flexibility should be 
encouraged but it is clear that such flexibility represents a relatively small share of the load 
                                                          
14  
See the Amazon, Calpine, Constellation, Google, Microsoft, Talen “Joint Stakeholder Package,” 
presented to the PJM Committee Critical Issue Fast Pass (“CIFP”) –Large Load Additions.  
(November 19, 2025). 

--- PAGE 10 ---
- 10 - 
of a data center. The only meaningful curtailment provisions would require curtailment prior 
to current DR customers and prior to shortage pricing and prior to PJM emergency 
declarations. That is not likely to work for data center loads. 
PJM is currently proposing to allow the interconnection of large new data center loads 
that it cannot serve reliably and that will require load curtailments (black outs) of the data 
centers or of other customers at times.15 That result is not consistent with the basic 
responsibility of PJM to maintain a reliable grid and is therefore not just and reasonable. 
PJM and market participants clearly recognize that the high level of new data center 
loads cannot now be served reliably. PJM’s Non Capacity Backed Load (“NCBL”) proposal 
made it clear that such loads would be subject to mandatory curtailments because there is 
not enough capacity to serve them.16 Most of the other CIFP proposals include provisions for 
curtailments of the new loads for the same reasons. None of the proposals have addressed 
the fact that PJM does not have the authority or the capability to order or enforce 
curtailments. Under all these proposals, PJM will be in the position of recommending the 
allocation of load curtailments rather than ensuring reliable service for all customers. 
In general, demand side options, including DR and PRD, are not equivalent to new 
generation. If there were to be a demand side option, the new large data centers would have 
to agree to be interrupted whenever capacity is needed to serve the other loads that paid for 
capacity, at a reasonable energy price and not limit interruptions to emergencies or to the 
limited run hours of backup generation. Those non-limited interruptions could be frequent 
given that current forecasts for additional new large data center load are approximately 
                                                          
15  
See PJM, Large Load Additions: PJM CIFP initial proposal and Alternatives considered (September 
15, 2025) at 7 (“In the event of expected supply shortages given forecasted large loads that do not 
elect BYOG or DR, PJM would require sufficient load to be Non-Capacity-Backed Load (NCBL) to 
maintain the RTO Reliability Requirement. ”). 
16  
See also Complaint. 

--- PAGE 11 ---
- 11 - 
30,000 MW.17 Demand side resources are not subject to market power mitigation and thus 
large new data center loads if defined as demand resources could exercise market power in 
the capacity and energy markets.  
The $1,849 per MWh PRD strike price cap is well above typical energy market clearing 
prices. This enables economic withholding of the PRD MW and means that the PRD are only 
illusory demand resources. Any demand side solution must be premised on performance  
based compensation tied to actual, verifiable load reductions coupled with a strike price cap 
and availability that meaningfully affects real time demand. While demand resources 
dispatched during a PAI continue to be subject to Non-Performance Assessment charges, 
demand resources dispatched outside of a PAI are not subject to any event specific 
penalties.18 CSPs may elect to use performance data from a Load Management event that was 
not subject to a Non-Performance Assessment (a non-PAI LM event) as performance data for 
a PJM zonal test event.19 The ability for test performance to be a substitute for event 
performance, coupled with the absence of nonperformance penalties, weakens the incentive 
to perform during non-PAI events. In their current and proposed forms, demand side 
solutions offer no viable substitution for generation capacity resources. 
Finally, the load curtailment option is a way to shift the costs of interconnecting data 
centers to other customers.20 If 20,000 MW of new data center load were added and all 20,000 
MW of this load were offered in the capacity market as emergency demand side resources, 
the Market Monitor estimates that the increased cost of capacity would be around $396 
million per year to existing customers. If 20,000 MW of new data center load were added and 
                                                          
17  
See 
PJM, 
2025 
PJM 
Long-Term 
Load 
Forecast 
Report 
<https://www.pjm.com/-
/media/DotCom/library/reports-notices/load-forecast/2025-load-report.pdf> (January 24, 2025). 
18  
“PJM Manual 18: PJM Capacity Market,” § 8.6, Rev. 61 (July 23, 2025). 
19  
“PJM Manual 18: PJM Capacity Market,” § 8.7, Rev. 61 (July 23, 2025). 
20  
See Monitoring Analytics, L.L.C., 2025 Quarterly State of the Market Report for PJM: January through 
September, Section 1: Introduction (March 13, 2025). 

--- PAGE 12 ---
- 12 - 
90 percent or less of this load were offered in the capacity market as emergency demand side 
resources, the Market Monitor estimates that the increased cost of capacity would be around 
$5.48 billion per year to existing customers. There would be comparable impacts on the cost 
of capacity for any proposal that results in an equivalent or smaller level of emergency 
demand resources in UCAP terms, e.g. from lower ELCC derating factors. It is expected that 
any curtailable load option would be at less than 90 percent between ELCC impacts and 
choices about curtailment levels. The impact on energy market prices of adding data center 
load without new generation would also be in the billions of dollars annually. The additional 
load without new generation affects energy prices directly by requiring generation from 
more expensive resources on the supply curve and by increasing the probability of shortage 
pricing. Emergency demand resources also directly affect clearing prices based on the offered 
strike prices which can be as high as $1,849 per MWh. 
2. Hybrid Facilities 
The concept of hybrid facilities is pervasive in the ANOPR. As defined in the ANOPR 
(at P 12), a hybrid facility is a load that shares a point of interconnection with new or existing 
generation facilities. This basic definition of a hybrid facility does not necessarily mean that 
the load is co-located in the sense that the load is behind the generator meter and fully 
isolated from the grid. While the ANOPR is not completely clear on that point, the ANOPR 
does appear to accept the co-location option as allowable in the narrow sense defined by PJM 
and accepted by the Commission in its Show Cause Order in Docket No. EL25-49-000.21 The 
Market Monitor continues to oppose the co-location option in this narrow sense for the 
reasons provided in Docket No. EL25-49-000, and in Docket No. EL25-20-000, which was 
Constellation’s attempt to have the narrow version of co-located load enshrined in the market 
rules. 
                                                          
21  
See PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., et al., 190 FERC ¶ 61,115 (2025). 

--- PAGE 13 ---
- 13 - 
The broader definition of co-located load means the efficient siting of loads and 
generation either near existing or new generation. The Market Monitor supports this efficient 
approach to siting generation and load. The bring your own new generation approach would 
provide a strong incentive for such efficient siting. 
The precise definition of co-located load is an essential issue in the discussions about 
reliably interconnecting large new loads. One of the side effects of not including generation 
adequacy explicitly in the ANOPR proposed rules for interconnecting large new loads is that 
the discussion of hybrid facilities does not address the impact on reliability. If the system is 
tight or short, as PJM is, removing existing generation, based on the co-location model, to 
serve large new data center loads as part of a hybrid facility simply shifts the costs and risks 
associated with that load to all other customers of PJM. That is not a solution to the problem 
of how to interconnect large new data center loads in a timely, orderly, and 
nondiscriminatory manner. 
The ANOPR references (at P 27) the possibility of using existing generation to meet 
large new data center loads. The ANOPR states (id.) this as the possibility of “an existing 
generating facility that seeks to enter a partial suspension to serve a new load at the same 
location must go through a system support resource (SSR)/reliability must run (RMR) type 
study.” The ANOPR requests comments on whether and how resource adequacy should be 
considered in such an RMR type study.  
The narrowly defined co-location model that is the subject of Constellation’s 
Complaint and Constellation’s ongoing comments in the PJM CIFP process would allow 
existing generation to sell to a large new data center load and withdraw from the PJM 
capacity market.22 If allowed, this option could lead to the end of PJM markets. The 
                                                          
22  
See Complaint Requesting Fast Track Processing of Constellation Energy Generation, LLC Docket 
No. EL25-20-000 (November 22, 2024) (“Constellation Complaint”); and also the Amazon, Calpine, 
Constellation, Google, Microsoft, Talen “Joint Stakeholder Package,” PJM Committee Critical Issue 
Fast Pass (“CIFP”) –Large Load Additions.  (November 19, 2025). 

--- PAGE 14 ---
- 14 - 
consequences would be catastrophic if, for example, 20,000 MW of nuclear plants sell their 
capacity to data centers and withdraw from the PJM Capacity Market and potentially from 
PJM markets entirely. The result would be reliability for the data center and unreliability, 
higher capacity, energy and reserves prices for other PJM customers. Although it is not clear 
what the ANOPR means by an RMR type study, one possibility is that if there is a reliability 
issue created by the potential withdrawal of a PJM capacity resource to serve data center 
load, that the unit would be paid an extremely high cost of service rate in order to keep it in 
service to PJM loads.23 That would another form of imposing the costs and risks associated 
with the entry of data centers on all other customers. That is another reason to reject the 
narrow co-location approach as inconsistent with the stated intent of the ANOPR. 
The ANOPR states (at P 23) that hybrid facilities should be required to install system 
protection facilities to protect the grid. It is clear from both experience in PJM and from NERC 
analyses that it is not possible to protect the grid from the impact of unexpected changes in 
co-located load.24 25 In addition, the co-located model has to date explicitly leaned on the grid, 
and other customers, for backup power when there is an outage at the co-located generator. 
There is simply no legitimate reason for the co-located model in the PJM wholesale power 
market. 
PJM’s comments also raise a potential implication of the ANOPR, the connect and 
manage paradigm under which new generators do not have to pay for the transmission 
upgrades required for deliverability, the study process is incomplete and the ultimate costs 
of interconnection are imposed on load in PJM. If correct, this extends the implications of the 
ANOPR well beyond its stated purpose. 
                                                          
23  
See Monitoring Analytics, L.L.C., 2024 Annual State of the Market Report for PJM, Volume 2: Section 10 
Ancillary Service Markets (March 13, 2025).  
24  
See PJM Comments at 11. 
25  
See Comments of the North American Electric Reliability Corporation in Response to Notice Inviting 
Comments Docket No. RM26-4 (November 21, 2025) (“NERC Comments”). 

--- PAGE 15 ---
- 15 - 
PJM states in its comments (at 9–10): 
There are also longer-term considerations that must be factored 
into the calculations. The “connect-and-manage” framework could 
lead to future grid build out that is not as robust and reliable as the 
planning standard PJM (and other RTOs/ISOs) have adhered to for 
decades if voluntarily curtailable load (Principle 7) is not planned 
for as firm load in regional transmission planning processes. The 
ANOPR’s intent, in this regard, should be further clarified. Any 
longer- term costs of a pivot to this type of “connect-and-manage” 
planning to achieve a shorter term runway for generator and load 
interconnections should be assessed and accounted for in any cost 
benefit analysis performed as to the ANOPR’s proposed reforms. 
The Market Monitor agrees with PJM’s points and thinks that PJM understates the 
negative outcomes of connect and manage. Ignoring the issues at the time of interconnection 
and imposing the actual costs as they are realized on other customers is not consistent with 
the stated purpose of the ANOPR. 
3. Transmission Service 
As part of ensuring that large new data center loads do not impose costs on other 
customers, all customers should be full NITS customers and pay their full share of 
transmission costs without calculations of asserted gross impacts, net impacts or other 
attempts to avoid paying for transmission service.26 Transmission cost allocation is difficult 
at best and attempts to modify the allocation to solve short term issues generally have 
unintended consequences for all. 
Consistent with the ANOPR, customers should always have the option to build 
required interconnection facilities. This is a form of competition to build transmission. 
                                                          
26  
See PJM TOs’ Comments. 

--- PAGE 16 ---
- 16 - 
II. CONCLUSION 
The Market Monitor respectfully requests that the Commission afford due 
consideration to these comments as the Commission resolves the issues raised in this 
proceeding. 
 
Joseph E. Bowring 
Independent Market Monitor for PJM 
President 
Monitoring Analytics, LLC 
2621 Van Buren Avenue, Suite 160 
Eagleville, Pennsylvania 19403 
(610) 271‐8051 
joseph.bowring@monitoringanalytics.com 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jeffrey W. Mayes 
 
General Counsel 
Monitoring Analytics, LLC 
2621 Van Buren Avenue, Suite 160 
Eagleville, Pennsylvania 19403 
(610) 271‐8053 
jeffrey.mayes@monitoringanalytics.com 
 
Dated: December 5, 2025 
