--- PAGE 1 ---
 
1 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System 
) 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
COMMENTS OF THE  
AMERICAN PUBLIC GAS ASSOCIATION 
 
 
Pursuant to the Notice of Inviting Comment issued by the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission (“FERC” or “Commission”) on October 27, 2025, the American Public Gas 
Association (“APGA”) respectfully submits these comments in this proceeding. 
 
I. 
COMMUNICATIONS 
All correspondence and other communications filed in this proceeding should be addressed 
to: 
Erin Kurilla 
Executive Vice President & Vice President of 
Advocacy and Operations 
American Public Gas Association 
201 Massachusetts Ave NE, Suite C-4 
Washington, DC 20001 
ekurilla@apga.org 
 
 
II. 
IDENTITY AND INTEREST   
APGA is the trade association for more than 730 communities across the U.S. that own and 
operate their retail gas distribution entities.  Overall, there are approximately 1,000 publicly- and 
community-owned systems in the United States.  These include not-for-profit gas distribution 
systems owned by municipalities and other local government entities, all accountable to the 
citizens they serve.  Public gas systems safely provide reliable, affordable, and sustainable energy 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
2 
to their customers and support their communities by delivering fuel to be used for cooking, clothes 
drying, and space and water heating, as well as for various commercial and industrial applications, 
including electricity generation.1 
A not-for-profit public gas system gives a community local control over how gas is 
provided to homes and businesses.  Instead of being made in a distant city, decisions are made at 
the community-level through citizen participation by people who appreciate local issues and who 
are primarily focused on service, safety, reliability, and costs.  Public gas systems are regulated by 
their consumer-owners through locally elected governing boards or appointed officials, which are 
accountable to the citizen ratepayers they serve and removable by them.  Accordingly, community 
aid and quality service are the mandates for these utilities.  
While APGA members are not responsible for the construction of interstate transmission 
pipelines that are subject to FERC’s jurisdiction, they are necessary to safely and reliably distribute 
the natural gas transported by these pipelines to residential, commercial, and industrial customers.  
To serve the communities that govern them, APGA members purchase interstate natural gas 
transportation services from pipelines at rates and under terms and conditions that are regulated by 
the Commission.  Most APGA members are also captive to a single pipeline.  Therefore, APGA 
members and the communities they serve have an interest in the Commission’s consideration of 
jurisdiction over the interconnection of large loads on both the electric and natural gas transmission 
systems.  
 
 
 
 
1  For more information, please visit www.apga.org. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
3 
III. 
BACKGROUND 
On October 23, 2025, the Secretary of Energy (Secretary) released an advanced notice of 
proposed rulemaking (ANOPR) for consideration and final action by the Commission.2 The 
Secretary asserted that in order “to user in a new era of American property, we must ensure all 
Americans and domestic industries have access to affordable, reliable, and secure electricity. To 
do this, large loads, including AI data centers, served by public utilities must be able to connect to 
the transmission system in a timely, orderly, and non-discriminatory manner.” 
 
The Secretary states “the unprecedented current and expected growth of large loads seeking 
to interconnect to the transmission system, and to provide open access and non-discriminatory 
access to the transmission system, it has become necessary to standardize interconnection 
procedures and agreements for such loads, including those seeking to share a point of 
interconnection with new or existing generation facilities (hybrid facilities).” 
The Secretary invites comments on a set of principles including transparency, timeliness, 
and non-discriminatory access to guide the Commission’s rulemaking procedures. APGA supports 
the Secretary’s emphasis on public engagement in shaping this rulemaking process. However, we 
are concerned that the current scope of the ANOPR overlooks the critical role natural gas 
infrastructure plays in supporting large electric loads. 
 
IV. 
COMMENTS 
APGA appreciates the opportunity to provide input on Secretary Wright’s directive to 
FERC regarding the interconnection of large electric loads to the interstate transmission system. 
 
2 https://www.energy.gov/sites/default/files/2025-10/403%20Large%20Loads%20Letter.pdf  

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
4 
As AI data centers and other high-demand facilities continue to grow, many are relying on 
natural gas-fired generation to meet their energy needs. Because many of these gas-fired 
facilities may draw from interstate pipelines regulated by FERC, their energy use has 
implications for interstate commerce. Additionally, they may impact the reliability of the natural 
gas transmission system, creating downstream impacts on APGA members’ ability to reliably 
and affordably serve their communities and customers. 
APGA requests that as the Commission contemplate jurisdiction over large loads, they 
consider how these large loads may influence interstate natural gas markets and infrastructure. 
This includes evaluating the extent to which such facilities impact interstate commerce, even if 
they are not directly connected to the electric grid. Any policy changes must preserve public gas 
utilities’ flexibility in exercising their firm transportation rights and protect their ability to serve 
residential and commercial customers. Without thoughtful planning and coordination, increased 
demand on pipelines could strain existing capacity and jeopardize the ability of public gas 
systems to meet their core obligation to serve. APGA urges the Commission to incorporate 
natural gas considerations into this rulemaking to support an energy future that safeguards the 
interests of public gas utilities and their customers. 
 
V. 
CONCLUSION 
APGA appreciates the opportunity to provide comments and respectfully requests that the 
Commission take into consideration these comments in this proposal. 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
5 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Erin Kurilla 
Executive Vice President & Vice President of 
Advocacy and Operations 
American Public Gas Association 
201 Massachusetts Ave NE, Suite C-4 
Washington, DC  20002 
ekurilla@apga.org 
Dated: November 20, 2025 
