--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System 
) 
) 
Docket No. RM26-4-000
REPLY COMMENTS OF  
AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER SERVICE CORPORATION 
American Electric Power Service Corporation (“AEP”), on behalf of its affiliates,1 
respectfully submits the following reply comments in response to comments filed in the above-
captioned proceeding regarding the Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) 
pursuant to the Notice of Request for Comments (“Notice”) issued by the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission (the “Commission”) on October 27, 2025.2   
At present, the generation interconnection process is too slow to provide generation 
capacity for large loads and win the artificial intelligence race,3 match pace with economic 
development, and ensure national security.  More generation resources and more transmission 
infrastructure are desperately needed to ensure the safe and reliable interconnection of and service 
to new large loads.  As noted in AEP’s Initial Comments, a root cause of the problem is the inability 
of the current, siloed processes to drive the construction of needed generation and transmission 
 
1 Appalachian Power Company, Indiana Michigan Power Company, Kentucky Power Company, Kingsport 
Power Company, Ohio Power Company, Wheeling Power Company, Public Service Company of 
Oklahoma, Southwestern Electric Power Company, AEP Appalachian Transmission Company, Inc., AEP 
Indiana Michigan Transmission Company, Inc., AEP Kentucky Transmission Company, Inc., AEP Ohio 
Transmission Company, Inc., AEP West Virginia Transmission Company, Inc., AEP Oklahoma 
Transmission Company, Inc., and AEP Southwestern Transmission Company, Inc. 
2 On November 7, 2025, the Commission extended the deadline for comments to November 21,2025 and 
for reply comments to December 5, 2025.  Notice Granting Extension of Time, Docket No. RM26-4 (issued 
Nov. 7, 2025). 
3 See, The White House, Winning the Race America’s AI Action Plan (July 2025), 
https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Americas-AI-Action-Plan.pdf. 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
2 
fast enough.4  Without much needed reforms, the current approaches threaten to produce 
insufficient and inefficient infrastructure to reliably support large load growth and economic 
development.  Left unaddressed, this could result in potentially unsustainable price increases and 
unaffordable energy bills that do not protect existing customers.  To protect other customers, large 
loads must pay their fair share for the transmission system expansion needed to serve them, and 
the Commission also needs to fundamentally reconsider how generator interconnection and 
transmission system planning are conducted to ensure that reforms drive cost-effective 
development to support interconnecting loads.   
I. 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
There is broad agreement among the ANOPR commenters that reforms are needed to 
improve the timeliness, predictability, and transparency of large load interconnection processes.5  
There also is broad agreement that any Commission action should not disrupt the current, 
productive efforts by utilities working with their respective states, RTO/ISOs, and large load 
customers to integrate large loads.6  Rather, any processes adopted by the Commission should 
 
4 Comments of Am. Elec. Power Serv. Corp., Docket No. RM26-4, at 4, 15 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“AEP 
Initial Comments”). 
5 Comments of the Am. Clean Power Ass’n, Docket No. RM26-4, at 1 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“American 
Clean Power Comments”); Comments of Oracle Am., Inc., Docket No. RM26-4, at 1 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) 
(“Oracle Comments”); Comments of PSEG Cos., Docket No. RM26-4, at 2 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“PSEG 
Comments”). 
6 See, e.g., Initial Comments of Amazon Energy LLC, Docket No. RM26-4, at 3 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) 
(“Amazon Energy LLC Comments”); Initial Comments of the Env’t Law & Pol’y Ctr., Docket No. RM26-
4, at 2–5 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“ELPC Initial Comments”); Comments of Indicated PJM TOs, Docket No. 
RM26-4, at 16-17 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“PJM TOs Comments”); Comments of the Large Public Power 
Council, Docket No. RM26-4, at 3–5 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“LPPC Comments”); Comments of the MD 
Energy Admin., Docket No. RM26-4, at 3 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (Maryland Energy Administration 
Comments); Initial Comments of Louisiana & Mississippi Pub. Serv. Comm’n, Docket No. RM26-4, at 4 
(filed Nov. 21, 2025) (LPSC/MPSC Comments”); Initial Comments of MISO Transmission Owners, 
Docket No. RM26-4, at 33–34 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“MISO TOs Comments”); Comments of Consumer 
Protection Off. of the Ohio Consumers’ Counsel, Docket No. RM26-4, at 1, 4 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“Ohio 
OCC Comments”); Comments of Southwest Power Pool Transmission Owner Grp., Docket No. RM26-4, 
 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
3 
complement those effective processes, while also advancing protections for existing consumers.7  
AEP’s proposal in its Initial Comments achieves this goal by focusing on long-term, proactive 
solutions to generator interconnection, transmission planning, and cost allocation.  AEP’s proposal 
supports the expedited connection of data centers and large industrial loads to the electric grid by 
effectively combining short-term speed-to-power solutions, with longer term generator 
interconnection reforms and proactive transmission planning, which address the root causes of the 
current slow pace of large load interconnections.  AEP’s proposal provides the most effective way 
to address issues created by the interconnection of large load holistically, quickly and without 
disrupting existing processes that have been put in place in the various states and RTO/ISOs.  
Any reforms adopted by the Commission as part of this ANOPR process should focus on 
long-term, proactive solutions to develop multi-value, high voltage transmission, supportive 
national cost allocation, and the interconnection of much needed new generation.  This is where 
the Commission can have the greatest, most-effective, and least-disruptive impact to advance large 
load interconnections.  The Commission can supplement these efforts with short-term solutions to 
improve speed-to-power in the near term, but the Commission must be selective about any such 
short-term solutions.  The Commission should be mindful that any short-term solution does not 
threaten reliability or derail current efforts at the state and regional level to effectively and 
efficiently interconnect large loads.  Additionally, the Commission should thoughtfully consider 
 
at 4-5 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“SPP TOs Comments”); Comments of Vantage Data Center, Docket No. 
RM26-4, at 2-3 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“Vantage Data Center, Comments”). 
7 Leaving current state and RTO/ISO processes in place also avoids disputes regarding state jurisdiction 
over retail service to large loads and other end use customers, which could impede the implementation of 
reforms that would otherwise accelerate the provision of service to large loads.  Throughout these 
comments, AEP intends to advocate for implementation of reforms and solutions within FERC’s 
jurisdiction in a manner that does not displace the retail jurisdiction of state commissions.  It is assumed by 
these comments that all loads will be served by load serving entities (“LSE”) who will take wholesale 
transmission service from transmission providers and owners to support their retail service to loads.   

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
4 
how any actions in this proceeding will protect existing customers from bearing disproportionate 
costs of large load infrastructure development.  As discussed in AEP’s Initial Comments, a national 
transmission cost allocation can lower costs by expediting investment in a proactively-planned 
national transmission backbone, providing nationwide access to a cost-effective and efficient grid.8   
The record provides a few promising proposals with elements that the Commission should 
consider promoting or adopting on a national level, such as certain elements of the Southwest 
Power Pool’s (“SPP’s”) High Impact Large Load (“HILL”) and High Impact Large Load 
Generation Assessment (“HILLGA”) proposals9 and NRG’s open season proposal,10 if 
implemented in a manner that complements more comprehensive, proactive transmission 
planning.  Critically, the Commission should focus on the necessary long-term solutions to allow 
system operators to efficiently and cost effectively manage the necessary build out to support the 
large load additions that are necessary to win the AI race.  
II. 
THE COMMISSION SHOULD NOT DISRUPT PROGRESS AT THE STATE 
AND REGIONAL LEVEL 
A. 
Any Commission action should be principles-based, avoid prescriptive 
requirements, and allow for regional flexibility  
Any rules adopted by the Commission in this proceeding should be principles-based, avoid 
prescriptive requirements, and allow for regional flexibility.  As many commenters note, states are 
already working with their state regulated utilities and large load customers in their respective 
 
8 See AEP Initial Comments at 23; see infra section IV.A, nn.48-49 (noting comments that describe how 
the addition of large loads can lower costs for existing customers). 
9 See Comments of Southwest Power Pool, Inc. Docket No. RM26-4, at 4-6 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“SPP 
Comments” ). 
10 Initial Comments of NRG Energy, Docket No. RM26-4, at 17 – 26 (filed Nov. 19, 2025) (“NRG 
Comments”). 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
5 
states to advance interconnection processes that work for their specific circumstances.11  The 
majority of commenters strongly agree that any Commission reforms to address large load 
interconnection should avoid disrupting these efforts that are already in progress.12  Rather, the 
Commission’s actions should allow for regional flexibility, avoiding prescriptive national 
requirements that could, in practice, hinder large load interconnections.  The U.S. Chamber of 
Commerce noted that any Commission action here “should be mindful to not upend the progress 
 
11 See Comments of Wash. Utils. & Transp. Comm’n, Docket No. RM26-4, at 1 (filed Nov. 24, 2025) 
(“Washington UTC Comments”) (ANOPR policies may conflict with the ongoing work of Washington’s 
Data Center Working Group established by Governor Ferguson’s Executive Order 25-05); Comments of 
Ind. Energy Ass’n, Docket No. RM26-4, at 2 (filed Nov. 24, 2025) (“Indiana EA Comments”) (Indiana has 
demonstrated that it is proactively and effectively addressing large load customer issues, through 
legislation, unique tariffs, and expedited regulatory proceedings); Initial Comments of the Cal. Pub. Utils. 
Comm’n, Docket No. RM26-4, at 2 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“California PUC Comments”) (CPUC and other 
states are already working on state-jurisdictional tariffs and standardized rules for large load energization); 
Comments of Pub. Staff – N.C. Utils. Comm’n, Docket No. RM26-4, at 5-6 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“North 
Carolina UC Staff Comments”) (North Carolina UC has proactively addressed the challenges, including 
conducting a technical conference on fairly and efficiently serving large load customers); Initial Comments 
of the Wis. Elec. Power Co. et al. Docket No. RM26-4, at 4-6 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“WEC Comments”) 
(discussing Very Large Customer and Bespoke Resources Tariffs, which together address large loads in 
Wisconsin Electric’s service territory); Comments of Pub. Util. Comm’n of Ohio’s Fed. Energy Advocate, 
Docket No. RM26-4, at 2-3 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“PUCO FEA Comments”) (PUCO has already begun 
working with regulated utilities in Ohio to create an orderly and expedited process by which new data center 
loads can request interconnection studies and an electric service agreement). 
12 See e.g., Amazon Energy LLC Comments, at 3 (noting that “[l]arge load developers have expended 
significant time and resources developing new large load projects . . . and made substantial investments in 
reliance on existing interconnection rules and procedures[,]” reforms that threaten that reliance could “cause 
substantial delay, or even force withdrawals, thereby undermining the goals . . . that the ANOPR seeks to 
advance.”); Comments of Data Center Coalition, Docket No. RM26-4, at 4 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“DCC 
Comments”) (“Reforms intended to improve timeliness and predictability should not inadvertently disrupt 
projects that have already made significant financial, contractual, and engineering commitments”); 
Comments of Eolian, L.P., Docket No. RM26-4, at 23 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“Eolian Comments”) (“Any 
load interconnection customer that has commenced a state jurisdictional process consistent with such a rule 
should then have the option to continue to be processed pursuant to that process even after acceptance of 
the applicable compliance filing, in order to limit disruption to the orderly processing of large load 
interconnections.”); Comments of Am. Pub. Power Ass'n, Docket No. RM26-4, at 4 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) 
(“APPA Comments”) (the Commission should not undermine the “efforts of retail regulators” to provide 
through retail tariffs the “clarity to data center developers” which have “help[ed] create positive 
environment for investment”); Ohio OCC, at 4 (“FERC’s rule must not undercut or preempt state efforts to 
manage large load growth through retail tariffs and rate design.”); LPPC Comments, at 6 (the Commission 
must ensure “it does not disrupt efforts now being undertaken by state authorities to deal with the urgency 
of serving this new load while protecting existing customers.”). 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
6 
that is currently being made to interconnect large load across the country.”13  Many state regulators 
noted that they are already working to address large load interconnection issues at the state level, 
and the Commission should avoid disrupting this progress.14  Large load customers also expressed 
their strong desire for collaboration and coordination between federal and state regulators, and that 
the Commission should not interrupt in-progress projects with one-size-fits-all nationwide 
requirements.15  Thus, any reforms that the Commission implements should be principles-based 
and should avoid prescriptive requirements that will interfere with state and regional advancements 
on large load interconnection.   
AEP’s recent retail data center tariffs are a primary example of the success of current state-
level reforms.  Working with state regulators in Ohio16 and across its multi-state footprint,17 AEP 
has crafted state-level large load tariffs to accelerate interconnection of these customers to the 
system while protecting the interests of all customers, a critical component of any action the 
Commission may choose to take.  Several commenters highlight the success of AEP’s state-level 
 
13 Comments of U.S. Chamber of Com., Docket No. RM26-4, at 2 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“U.S. Chamber 
of Commerce Comments”). 
14 See, e.g., Comments of Pennsylvania Pub. Utils. Comm’n, Docket No. RM26-4, at 8 (filed Nov. 21, 
2025) (PA PUC Comments); Initial Comments of Louisiana & Mississippi Pub. Serv. Comm’n, Docket 
No. RM26-4, at 6-8 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (LPSC/MPSC Comments); PUCO FEA Comments, at 2-3; Initial 
Comments of Va. State Corp. Comm’n, Docket No. RM26-4, at 4-5 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“Viginia SCC”); 
Comments of N.Y. State Pub. Serv. Comm’n, Docket No. RM26-4, at 7 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“NY PSC 
Comments”). 
15 Comments of META Platforms, Inc., Docket No. RM26-4, at 3 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“META 
Comments”) (“The Commission … should not rush to impose a one-size-fits-all regulatory solution 
nationwide.”); Initial Comments of Microsoft, Inc., Docket No. RM26-4, at 8 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) 
(“Microsoft Comments”) (supporting collaboration between federal and state regulators); Amazon Energy 
LLC Comments at 3-4 (arguing the Commission should not disrupt large load projects that are already in 
progress). 
16 In re Application of Ohio Power Co. for New Tariffs Related to Data Centers & Mobile Data Ctrs., 
PUCO Case No. 24-508-EL-ATA, Opinion and Order (July 9, 2025). 
17 In addition to Ohio, AEP has implemented these tariffs in Indiana, West Virginia, and Kentucky and 
has filed similar tariff structures for state commission approval in Virginia, Texas, and Michigan.  AEP 
Initial Comments at 6, n.8. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
7 
tariffs, identifying them as an example of effective state-level solutions for large load 
interconnection.18  The Public Utility Commission of Ohio (“PUCO”) Federal Energy Advocate 
highlighted the AEP Ohio Tariff as an example of the PUCO’s work with Ohio utilities to “create 
an orderly and expedited process” that data center loads can use to connect to the system.  Since 
implementation of the Tariff on July 11, 2025, “36 data center cites representing over 13,000 MW 
of new load have filed applications” to interconnect.19  The AEP Ohio tariff also received support 
from the Ohio Consumers Counsel, stating it “represent[s] careful policy judgements about 
economic development, cost recovery, and local grid capacity” and “ensures that local customers 
are not at a disadvantage in any large industrial projects.”20 The Commission should build on this 
important progress at the state level that balances the need for speed-to-power with the need to 
protect existing customers.21   
At the same time, RTO/ISOs are actively working to improve processes for generator 
interconnection and transmission development to enhance speed-to-power.  The Commission 
should not overlook these reforms, which are the result of stakeholder-driven, consensus processes 
that reflect the unique needs of specific regions.  For example, PJM has an ongoing stakeholder 
process to develop reforms.  PJM is working to implement a process that addresses large load 
 
18 PUCO FEA Comments at 2; Ohio OCC Comments at 4, 8; Comments of the AES Corp., Docket No. 
RM26-4, at 5 n.7 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“AES Comments”); Mot. to Intervene and Comments of DTE Elec. 
Co., Docket No. RM26-4, at 16 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“DTE Comments”). 
19 PUCO FEA Comments at 2. 
20 Ohio OCC Comments at 4, 8.  
21 AEP disagrees with Vistra Corp.’s comments that advocate for the Commission to interfere with the AEP 
Ohio Tariff.  Vistra provides an annotated version of the AEP Ohio Tariff to illustrate its argument that if 
the Commission asserts jurisdiction over the interconnection of large loads, it will leave state efforts 
undisturbed.  But the Vistra’s annotations to the AEP Ohio Tariff actually demonstrate significant 
disruption to AEP’s and Ohio’s efforts, stripping out material provisions.  The Commission should not 
disrupt utility and state regulator efforts in this way.  See Comments of Vistra Corp., Docket No. RM26-4, 
at 15, Exhibit A (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“Vistra Comments”)   

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
8 
interconnection while maintaining system reliability, with the aim of gaining broad stakeholder 
support.22  And recently, as described in more detail below, SPP filed new rules and tariff 
provisions, with utility and customer support, to govern aspects of the large load interconnection 
process.23  Here again, the Commission should ensure that any processes developed through this 
ANOPR proceeding are additive and do not disrupt any regional progress.   
B. 
Large load interconnection network upgrade costs should be rolled into 
transmission rates  
AEP agrees with commenters arguing that network upgrade costs for large load 
interconnections should be rolled into transmission rates and that direct assignment of 100% of 
such network upgrade costs to large load customers is not appropriate.24  As many commenters 
discussed, the Commission’s longstanding precedent is that network upgrades benefit the entire 
system and therefore their costs should be rolled into transmission providers’ rates and charged to 
all system customers.25  As these commenters noted, this makes sense—large loads should pay 
their fair share for use of the transmission system and not just for the costs necessary to 
 
22 PJM Interconnection, L.C.C., PJM Board of Managers Letter to Stakeholders (Aug. 8, 2025), 
https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/about-pjm/who-we-are/public-disclosures/2025/20250808-pjm-
board-letter-re-implementation-of-critical-issue-fast-path-process-for-large-load-additions.pdf 
; 
PJM 
Interconnection, 
L.C.C., 
Large 
Load 
Additions 
Stakeholder 
Feedback 
(Sept. 
15, 
2025), 
https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/committees-groups/cifp-lla/2025/20250915/20250915-item-04---
stakeholder-feedback-on-large-load-additions---pjm-presentation.pdf. 
23 Sw. Power Pool, Inc., Southwest Power Pool board approves accelerated pathway for large load 
connection (Sept. 16, 2025), https://www.spp.org/news-list/southwest-power-pool-board-approves-
accelerated-pathway-for-large-load-connection/. 
24 See, e.g., Comments of WIRES, Docket No. RM26-4, at 6 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“WIRES Comments”); 
Comments of Edison Elec. Inst., Docket No. RM26-4, at 8-9 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“EEI Comments”); 
Comments of FirstEnergy Serv. Co., Docket No. RM26-4 at 6-7 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“FirstEnergy 
Comments”); Comments of Duke Energy, Docket No. RM26-4 at 22-23 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“Duke 
Comments”); PSEG Comments at 23-24; Joint Comments of Indus. Customer Orgs., Docket No. RM26-4 
at 8-9 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“Industrial Customers Comments”). 
25 Id. 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
9 
interconnect them to the system.26  Also, as EEI noted, to protect existing customers from risks 
created by large loads, state-level reforms are in place that mitigate these risks and protect 
customers by setting minimum security requirements, among other tools.27   
Furthermore, it is fundamental that transmission owners earn a reasonable rate of return for 
owning and operating all transmission facilities, including those necessary to interconnect large 
load customers, consistent with long standing Commission policy for transmission upgrades 
integrated with the grid.28  Transmission owners earn a lawful and approved return via their 
transmission rates by including the capital costs necessary to develop the network upgrades in their 
rate base.  Thus, by including the network upgrade costs for large load interconnections in rolled-
in transmission rates, transmission owners will be able to earn their approved return for owning 
and operating these facilities.  This is critical to ensure that transmission owners can continue to 
attract the capital necessary to develop the transmission infrastructure needed to support the 
interconnection of large loads.  
 
26 See EEI Comments at 10 (“Large load customers will use and benefit from the broader system and, 
therefore, should pay their fair share as users of that system rather than cover only certain costs.”); PJM 
TOs Comments at 3 (“Rolled-in rate treatment will promote more efficient and timely large load 
interconnection by avoiding cost allocation and jurisdictional disputes, as well as ensuring that all load 
customers continue to contribute their fair share of the benefits of an integrated transmission network.”); 
Comments of Entergy Operating Cos., Docket No. RM26-4 at 20 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“Entergy 
Comments”). 
27 EEI Comments, at 12-13. 
28 Ameren Servs. Co. v. FERC, 880 F.3d 571, 581 (D.C. Cir. 2018) (citing Fed. Power Comm'n v. Hope 
Nat. Gas Co., 320 U.S. 591, 603 (1944)) (“But a careful reading of Supreme Court precedent reveals that a 
regulated industry is entitled to a return that is sufficient to ensure that new capital can be attracted.”); 
Bluefield Waterworks & Imp. Co. v. Pub. Serv. Comm'n of W. Va., 262 U.S. 679, 690 (1923) (“There must 
be a fair return upon the reasonable value of the property at the time it is being used for the public.”) (citation 
omitted). 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
10 
III. 
PROMISING SHORT-TERM SOLUTIONS FOR SPEED TO POWER 
A. 
Several proposed speed-to-power solutions raised in the record are worth 
exploring   
Several commenters proposed solutions addressing speed-to-power in the short term that 
would be worthwhile for the Commission to explore.29  In particular, AEP highlights SPP’s HILL 
and HILLGA proposals and NRG’s “open season” concept as potential innovative and promising 
solutions that contain elements for the Commission to consider.   
As several commenters note,30 SPP’s HILL and HILLGA proposals serve as a useful 
example of RTO/ISO innovation to advance speed-to-power.31  HILL is a new category of load in 
SPP and HILLGA is a new generator interconnection service and process for generation supporting 
HILLs.32  These proposals shorten the study time for both large loads and additive, new generation 
resources to serve those loads.  Reforms with elements modeled after these SPP proposals would 
work together with AEP’s vision of proactive transmission planning and entry-fee based 
generation interconnection. AEP’s proposals are aimed at efficient and cost-effective transmission 
planning, reducing reactive, piecemeal transmission projects, and reducing the timeline for 
generation to come online.33  This goes hand-in-hand with consolidated planning ideas, discussed 
further herein, which may also use an entry fee model for generator interconnection requests.   
 
29 See, e.g., DTE Comments, at 2-3; Comments of Elec. Customer All., Docket No. RM26-4, at 2-3 (filed 
Nov. 21, 2025) (“ECA Comments”); SPP Comments at 4-6; NRG Comments at 17-26. 
30 See DTE Comments, at 8-10; Comments of Enchanted Rock, LLC, Docket No. RM26-4, at 4 (filed Nov. 
21, 2025) (“Enchanted Rock Comments”); Google Comments at 8-9; Initial Comments of Mo. Pub. Serv. 
Comm’n, Docket No. RM26-4, at 4 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (Missouri PSC). 
31 See SPP Comments at 4-6, see generally id. 
32 Id. at 4-5. 
33 See generally AEP Comments (describing “connect and manage” approach to generation interconnection, 
entry fee model, proactive transmission planning, and nationwide cost allocation). 

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
11 
NRG proposes an “open season” rather than a “first-come, first-served” process for large 
load interconnections.34  Elements of that idea are also worth exploring.35  An initial open season, 
in concept, could efficiently allocate existing headroom on the transmission system.  An open 
season is also consistent with proactive planning, discussed in section IV, infra, because regular 
open seasons can support larger, more cost-effective transmission system expansion than studies 
that are focused on the individual needs of specific interconnection customers.  Open seasons 
would lead to identification of electrically advantageous locations where load and generation can 
interconnect more efficiently and rapidly.36  Additionally, an open season approach would help 
protect existing customers by requiring large load customers to enter into financially binding 
commitments to receive rights to interconnect with the system.  Thus, this is a promising concept 
that the Commission should consider as it looks for ways to promote the development of the 
infrastructure necessary to support new large load interconnections.   
Nonetheless, as discussed in section II, supra, when considering these or any other speed-
to-power solutions, the Commission should avoid overly prescriptive requirements.  Ultimately, 
regions need flexibility to adapt to their specific large load growth needs. 
 
34 NRG Comments at 17 – 26.  
35 See Initial Comments Elec. Power Supply Ass’n, Docket No. RM26-4, at 15 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) 
(“EPSA Comments”); Eolian Comments, at 32; Comments of ClearPath, Inc., Docket No. RM26-4, at 5 
(filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“ClearPath Comments”). 
36 Here, "locations on the grid" as part of an open season concept differ from other mechanisms that seek 
to promote grid development, such as DOE National Interest Electric Transmission Corridors (“NIETC”). 
An open season concept is aimed at rapid load and generation development dictated by the engineering 
attributes of the grid, whereas NIETCs foster transmission expansion using static geographic zone 
designated by government studies. 
 

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
12 
B. 
As a bridge to firm service, the Commission should consider directing 
transmission providers to offer conditional service to generators and to LSEs 
serving large loads and co-located loads 
The Commission should consider directing transmission providers to offer interim 
conditional service—that is, non-firm or conditional firm transmission service—to generators and 
to LSEs serving large loads and co-located loads.  Transmission infrastructure investment is a 
barrier to firm service for large loads and generation.  Temporary conditional service is a short-
term speed-to-power solution that can bring new generation and load on line quickly and be used 
as a bridge service until the transmission system is upgraded to support full network service to 
those interconnections.  This could advance large load interconnections without risking the 
reliability of the grid, which is paramount. 
1. 
Conditional service for generation, large loads, and co-located loads 
could increase speed-to-power 
Conditional generation interconnection service would address the root issue that large load 
growth faces: insufficient availability of reliable generation.  Compared to firm service, 
conditional interconnection service could require less time for initial generation interconnection 
studies.  Thus, it could improve speed-to-power for new generation needed to serve large loads 
and do so without threatening reliability for other customers.  Conditional service also could 
facilitate a “connect and manage,” entry-fee approach to generation interconnection advocated for 
by AEP in its Initial Comments.37  Using conditional interconnection service, generators could 
interconnect before full network service is available and the transmission provider could manage 
that service through curtailments until the necessary upgrades are in place to provide the generator 
with full network service.   
 
37 AEP Initial Comments, at 7-10. 

--- PAGE 13 ---
 
13 
Conditional transmission service could also provide a speed-to-power solution for large 
loads and co-located loads.  If large loads are willing to accept conditional transmission service 
and be curtailed, the Commission could adopt rules that allow LSEs to bring large loads online 
faster.  This approach would work under various scenarios such as standalone large loads that are 
willing to be curtailable or loads willing to co-locate with behind the meter generation, contract 
with nearby generation, or a combination thereof.  In exchange for being curtailable, LSEs could 
give large loads the opportunity to come online faster.  
AEP is already innovating to provide custom, behind-the-meter solutions to large load 
customers via its partnership with Bloom Energy.  Under its agreement with Bloom Energy, AEP 
can secure solid oxide fuel cells to provide behind-the-meter power to large load customers quickly 
while the grid is being built out to accommodate their demand.38  Whereas conditional service may 
require customers to be curtailable, AEP’s partnership with Bloom Energy allows customers to 
come online sooner without curtailment.  The development of conditional transmission service 
offerings would allow for more large load customers to consider novel, temporary flexibility 
solutions that improve speed-to-power without precluding an eventual transition to full network 
service.  
Other commenters noted their support for similar approaches.  Eolian detailed the benefits 
of flexible approaches for curtailable and hybrid facilities alike, describing how such approaches 
can reduce the resource adequacy impacts of large loads while enabling them to come online 
quickly.39  Eolian also notes that without access to conditional transmission service, much of the 
 
38 AEP, AEP Leveraging Fuel Cell Technology to Power Data Center Growth (Nov. 14, 2024), 
https://www.aep.com/news/stories/view/9866/AEP-Leveraging-Fuel-Cell-Technology-to-Power-Data-
Center-Growth/. 
39 See generally, Eolian Comments; see id. at 1 

--- PAGE 14 ---
 
14 
potential value of the hybrid resource model would be lost.40  EsVolta highlighted that battery 
storage in particular can be deployed on a short, 12-18 month timeline.41  Advanced Energy United 
encourages the Commission to recognize that “[e]ven a small degree of flexibility among new 
large loads would enable the current system to accommodate significantly more load growth with 
minimal infrastructure upgrades.”42   
2. 
Any conditional service must be designed to ensure every customer 
does not threaten reliability and pays their fair share for use of the 
transmission system  
While conditional generator interconnection and transmission service offerings could 
provide important benefits, as described above, it is essential that such services are designed to 
avoid threatening system reliability or allowing customers to escape paying their fair share for the 
services they receive.  As the PJM Transmission Owners argued in their answer43 to the 
Commission’s Co-Location Order to Show Cause,44 even if co-located load rarely draws from the 
grid, transmission providers have an obligation to ensure the transmission system can serve the co-
located load’s full needs at any time.  Load benefits from its interconnection to the transmission 
system and the reliability that such interconnection provides, even co-located load that does not 
regularly draw from the grid.   
 
40 Id. 34. 
41 Comments of EsVolta LP, Docket No. RM26-4, at 9 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“EsVolta Comments”). 
42 Comments of Advanced Energy United, Docket No. RM26-4, at 22 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“Advanced 
Energy United Comments”) (citation omitted); see also Joint Comments of the Load Flexibility Parties, 
Docket No. RM26-4, at 2-4 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“Load Flexibility Parties”) (arguing that the Commission 
should consider flexible load eligible along with co-located load for expedited interconnection process). 
43 PJM Interconnection L.L.C., et al., Answer of the Indicated PJM Transmission Owners to the Order 
Instituting the Proceeding, Accession No. 20250324-5298, Docket No. EL25-49, Attachment A at 13 (filed 
Mar. 24, 2025) (“PJM TO Co-Location OSC Answer”).   
44 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 190 FERC ¶ 61,115 (2025). 

--- PAGE 15 ---
 
15 
As the demand and urgency for large load interconnection increases, AEP remains open to 
transmission providers offering conditional service to LSEs serving those loads, as long as the 
terms of such service are appropriately defined and reliability and existing customers is protected.  
In the long-term, co-located load must be served by existing forms of transmission service 
(Network Service or Point to Point Service), but specific forms of conditional service may be worth 
exploring as interim tools to help meet the unprecedented growth in large loads.45  In particular, 
conditional transmission service could be an effective bridge solution to bring new large load 
customers online quickly, before the necessary transmission upgrades are made to provide the 
customer firm service, then the customer could convert to firm service once the upgrades are 
complete.46  As noted above, the specific terms of any such conditional generation interconnection 
or transmission service are key—it cannot be a service that would permit any facility to 
interconnect to the grid without paying its fair share for the transmission system.  But the potential 
speed-to-power benefits of conditional service could make it worthwhile to figure out these 
specifics and make conditional service workable for large load customers and associated 
generation without negatively impacting existing customers. 
C. 
Short-term solutions are critical, but they cannot replace essential upgrades to 
the transmission system   
Some commenters argued that short-term solutions such as co-location and curtailable 
large loads are on their own sufficient to allow for large load interconnection, mitigating the need 
 
45 PJM TO Co-Location OSC Answer,  at 12. 
46 Large load customers, in particular data centers, typically seek Network Service.  Conditional service is, 
therefore, only appropriate as a short-term tool to get these customers online more quickly so they do not 
have to wait for infrastructure.  Then they can transition to Network Service.   

--- PAGE 16 ---
 
16 
for network upgrades.47  This is not the case.  Short-term, flexible approaches can facilitate speed-
to-power, but they cannot ensure a transmission system that can support the projected large load 
growth.  To meet the demands of large load growth, we must also expand generation capacity and 
transmission system capacity with proactive transmission planning. 
IV. 
PROACTIVE TRANSMISSION PLANNING IS ESSENTIAL 
A. 
Proactive transmission planning is also needed to ensure affordability and 
cost-effective system expansion 
While short-term speed-to-power solutions are important, the Commission cannot overlook 
the need to foster proactive transmission planning, which is necessary to ensure cost-effective and 
affordable transmission system expansion and timely interconnection of new generation resources.  
In addition to AEP, many other commenters support proactive, multi-value planning as an essential 
tool to address large load interconnections.  For example, Americans for a Clean Energy Grid 
commented that the ANOPR “misses one major point: the best way to integrate new facilities on 
the grid is to build out sufficient capacity through proactive well-planned multi-value 
transmission.”48   
 
47 See Comments Emerald AI, Docket No. RM26-4, at 1 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“Emerald AI Comments”); 
Comments 
of 
the 
Inst. 
for 
Progress 
at 
9-10 
(filed 
Nov. 
21, 
2025) 
( 
IFP Comments”). 
48 Comments of Am. for a Clean Energy Grid, Docket No. RM26-4, at 3-4 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“ACEG 
Comments”); see also Initial Comments of R Street Inst., Docket No. RM26-4, at 4 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) 
(“R Street Institute Comments”) (noting the Commission should “focus on forward-looking transmission 
development, rather than post-hoc network development accompanying generation interconnection 
requests.”); Comments of Pub. Int. Org., Docket No. RM26-4, at 20-21 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“Public 
Interest Organizations Comments”) (“[I]n the long term, building out the system in response to discrete, 
emergent needs rather than through proactive, forward-looking, system-wide planning fails to identify the 
most cost-effective infrastructure investments, which would solve the reliability issues associated with new 
large load and provide broader system benefits.”); Comments of the Am. Council on Renewable Energy, 
Docket No. RM26-4, at 3 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“American Council on Renewable Energy Comments”) 
(suggesting that the Commission work with DOE and the National Laboratories to “establish best practices 
and common methodologies for the forecasting of large loads and their power needs that can be incorporated 
into the long-term transmission planning process.”); Google Comments, at 3-4 (criticizing the current 
“fragmented, highly localized planning practices” and “piecemeal upgrades” and arguing for a “holistic” 
 

--- PAGE 17 ---
 
17 
As AEP noted in its comments on the Order No. 1920 rulemaking proceeding, forward 
looking, multi-value transmission planning goes beyond the “just in time” approach to 
transmission planning that is focused on addressing specific system needs as they occur.49  Multi-
value planning identifies regional solutions that address a multitude of needs that will occur over 
a long-term horizon, such as regional reliability and economic value.  This creates more efficient 
and cost-effective solutions than the traditional “just in time” approach.50  Proactive, multi-value 
planning is also crucial to foster the development of Extra High Voltage (“EHV”) facilities—the 
essential backbone of the nation’s transmission system—because it looks ahead to identify 
regional and interregional needs and the corresponding EHV solutions.   
While Order No. 1920 took significant strides toward proactive transmission planning on 
a national scale, the Commission can take further steps to ensure that reforms adopted through 
compliance filings support large load growth.  First, the Commission should facilitate expedient 
implementation of Order No. 1920’s planning mechanisms so that long-term, proactive 
transmission planning processes begin as soon as possible.  Second, when considering compliance 
with Order No. 1920, the Commission should ensure that transmission providers’ scenario 
development processes include robust forecasting procedures for large loads that make sense for 
their region’s unique needs.  While Order No. 1920 did not require specific forecasting procedures 
for large loads, it acknowledged that its reforms were driven, in part, by the changing demand 
 
and “comprehensive, coordinated transmission planning process built on a more complete picture of growth 
in supply and demand.”). 
49  Bldg. for the Future Through Elec. Reg’l Transmission Planning & Cost Allocation, Initial Comments 
of Am. Elec. Power Serv. Corp., Docket No. RM21-17, at 12-15 (filed Oct. 12, 2021) (“AEP 1920 
Comments”). 
50 Id.  AEP supports the Commission’s efforts through the Order 1920 rulemaking proceeding to require 
long-term, multi-value regional transmission planning even though AEP has raised concerns about certain 
aspects of the Commission’s implementation of the rule which impede the Commission’s goals of 
encouraging efficient, cost effective, long-term development of grid infrastructure. 

--- PAGE 18 ---
 
18 
associated with large loads.51  Order No. 1920 also requires that long-term scenarios identify 
transmission needs across a plausible and diverse range of future scenarios, and the Commission 
should consider whether transmission providers’ proposed approaches to scenario development 
adequately account for anticipated large load growth possibilities.  Thus, the Commission would 
be acting within the requirements of Order No. 1920 if it ensured that transmission providers in 
their respective compliance filings consider large loads in their scenario development.  
When done right, proactive planning could improve affordability when large loads join the 
system.52  Proactive planning identifies the most cost-effective transmission facilities and new 
large loads would share their portion of the fixed costs—a large portion—for such transmission 
investment.  Together, these cost-effective investments paired with load that pays a proportionally 
large share of the fixed costs could reduce costs for other customers.  For example, Pacific Gas 
and Electric Company noted that existing ratepayers could see bill reductions as a result of large 
loads interconnecting and contributing revenue to support the transmission system, because the 
revenues that exceed incremental interconnection costs can offset costs paid by existing 
ratepayers.53  Also, as AEP noted in its Initial Comments, proactive planning will greatly increase 
 
51 Bldg. for the Future Through Elec. Reg’l Transmission Planning & Cost Allocation, Order No. 1920, 
187 FERC ¶ 61,068, at P 95 (2024); subsequent history omitted. 
52 Ryan Wiser et al., Factors influencing recent trends in retail electricity prices in the United States, 38 
The Electricity Journal, at 5-6 (2025) (providing analysis showing that load growth had the effect of 
depressing 
retail 
electricity 
rates 
by 
spreading 
fixed 
costs 
over 
greater 
load), 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1040619025000612. 
53 Pac. Gas & Elec. Co. Opening Comments, Docket No. RM26-4, at 4-5 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“PG&E 
Comments”); see also Comments of Alliant Energy Corp. Servs., Docket No. RM26-4, at 3 (filed Nov. 21, 
2025) (“Alliant Comments”) (“Load growth, whether that is in the form of agricultural, technological, or 
manufacturing customers, creates an opportunity to maintain affordable rates for all customers as that 
growth helps to spread out fixed costs, support load predictability, and increase efficiency of grid assets.”); 
ECA Comments, at 2 (“Effectively integrating large loads can also provide substantial benefits to all 
customers by spreading the fixed costs of the power system to the new large customers, leading to lower 
rates for existing customers.”). 

--- PAGE 19 ---
 
19 
net benefits to consumers; a Grid Strategies paper found that delaying well-planned transmission 
increases costs and reduces benefits to consumers.54 
B. 
The Commission should support regional efforts for consolidated, integrated 
planning 
The Commission should support regional efforts to move towards consolidated, integrated 
planning, like SPP’s CPP.55  As AEP noted in its Initial Comments, SPP’s CPP embraces a version 
of an entry fee model for interconnection requests.56  An entry fee model is designed to mitigate 
incentives for developers to submit speculative interconnection requests by providing greater cost 
certainty prior to entering the interconnection queue.57  The SPP Transmission Owners Group 
believes that CPP will accomplish these goals, unanimously supporting the proposal.58   
As other comments have also urged, the Commission should look to SPP’s CPP as a model 
of an integrated planning process for other regions to follow.59  Consolidated planning allows 
interconnecting generation to contribute to regional transmission facilities being developed as part 
of a larger plan.  Further, generators know their costs up front, and the interconnection process is 
 
54 AEP Initial Comments, at 17-18 & n.24 (citing Zach Zimmerman, Rob Gramlich & Michael Goggin, 
Delaying transmission increases costs and reduced benefits for consumers, at II (2025), 
https://wiresgroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/11/Cost-of-Delayed-TransmissionReport-by-Grid-
Strategies-for-WIRES.pdf.). 
55 See, e.g., Comments of Clean Energy Buyers Ass’n, Docket No. RM26-4, at 8-9 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) 
(“CEBA Comments”); Comments of the Am. Council on Renewable Energy, Docket No. RM26-4, at 4-5 
(filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“ACORE Comments”); Comments of ENGIE N. Am., Inc., Docket No. RM26-4, at 
5-6 (filed Nov. 24, 2025) (“ENGIE Comments”); Google Comments at 6-7; Comments of Southern 
Companies, Docket No. RM26-4, at 6-7 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“Southern Comments”). 
56 AEP Initial Comments, at 12 n.15. 
57 See Sw. Power Pool, Inc., Submission of Revisions to the SPP Open Access Transmission Tariff to 
Implement the Consolidated Planning Process, Docket No. ER26-414-000 (filed Nov. 3, 2025) (“SPP CPP 
Filing”). 
58 Comments of t  Transmission Owners Grp., Docket No. ER26-414 (filed on Nov. 24, 2025) (SPP TOs 
Comments). 
59 See, e.g., Google Comments, at 4-5; Eolian Comments at 32; ClearPath Comments at 5. 

--- PAGE 20 ---
 
20 
streamlined by the decrease in speculative interconnection requests, which are often withdrawn.  
With fewer request withdrawals, the queue would not be so bogged down with restudies.  Thus, 
consolidated planning provides a solution to speed up interconnection.  
C. 
The Commission should encourage advanced conductors to maximize 
available infrastructure 
The Commission should consider additional ways to encourage the use of advanced 
conductors to maximize the use of existing physical infrastructure and rights-of-way necessary to 
support the interconnection of large loads.  Integrating advanced conductors in targeted 
applications can support the interconnection of large loads while new infrastructure is completed.60  
Reconductoring with advanced conductors can greatly increase capacity in a short time frame (less 
than two years), utilizing existing towers and rights-of-way, thereby avoiding siting processes.61  
Thus, it provides a another tool the Commission should consider encouraging the use of to facilitate 
its goal of speed-to-power.  Recently, AEP received a $1.6 billion loan guarantee from DOE’s 
Loan Programs Office (the Energy Dominance Financing Program) to rebuild and reconductor 
approximately 5,000 miles of transmission lines across Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Oklahoma, and 
West Virginia.62  This financing will support upgrades to install advanced conductors, increasing 
 
60  For example, AEP Texas and ETT (Electric Transmission Texas) developed improvements to the 
transmission lines in the Lower Rio Grande Valley (LRGV) in Texas to improve reliability.  AEP Texas 
used an advanced conductor for the LRGV Reconductor project.  ETT had a concurrent greenfield project 
that was part of the same ERCOT endorsement, and the advanced conductor was used to expedite 
completion and maintain service to growing load in the LRGV while the greenfield project was being 
constructed.  
61 See, e.g., Comments of CTC Glob., Docket No. RM26-4 (filed Nov. 24, 2025) (“CTC Global 
Comments”); ACORE Comments at 6-7; Initial Comments of the Working for Advanced Transmission 
Tech., Docket No. RM26-4 (filed Nov. 21, 2025); Public Interest Organizations Comments at 6. 
62 DOE, Energy Dep’t Closes Loan Guarantee to Strengthen U.S. Grid Reliability (Oct. 16, 2025), 
https://www.energy.gov/articles/energy-department-closes-loan-guarantee-strengthen-us-grid-
reliability#:~:text=Breadcrumb,capacity%20in%20rapidly%20growing%20areas; AEP, AEP Receives 
U.S. Dep’t of Energy Loan Guarantee to Upgrade 5,000 Miles of Transmission Lines (Oct. 16, 2025), 
https://www.aep.com/news/stories/view/10501/. 

--- PAGE 21 ---
 
21 
capacity within existing rights-of-way.  The Commission should likewise consider incentives to 
promote the widespread use of advanced conductors.  This technology is a forward-looking tool 
to increase transmission capacity that also supports speed-to-power in the short term. 
V. 
CONCLUSION 
AEP urges the Commission to focus its actions on the long-term capacity additions and 
transmission system expansions that are necessary to support large load growth.  The nation cannot 
keep pace with the technological and national security demands without improved generation 
interconnection processes, transmission planning, and further development of the backbone 
transmission system to support both.  There are certain short-term, speed-to-power solutions that 
the Commission should explore in tandem with long-term, forward-looking generation 
interconnection, proactive transmission planning, and cost allocation solutions.  Finally, the 
Commission’s reforms should avoid introducing additional delays to large load interconnection by 
disrupting state and regional-level efforts.  
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
/s/ John C. Crespo 
 
 
John C. Crespo 
Carrie L. Bumgarner 
Jessica A. Cano 
American Electric Power Service Corporation
1 Riverside Plaza 
Columbus, OH 43215 
Telephone: (614) 716-3727 
E-mail: jccrespo@aep.com 
Telephone: (614) 716-2941 
E-mail: clbumgarner@aep.com 
Telephone: (614) 716-2921 
E-mail: jacano@aep.com 
December 5, 2025

--- PAGE 22 ---
 
 
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
 
I hereby certify that on this 5th day of December 2025, I have served a copy of the 
foregoing document on the official service list compiled by the Office of the Secretary for the 
above-referenced proceeding. 
 
/s/ LaChon Turner 
LaChon Turner 
Paralegal 
American Electric Power Service Corporation 
801 Pennsylvania Ave NW 
Suite 735 
Washington, DC 20004 
(202) 383-3465 
lturner@aep.com 
 
 
 
