--- PAGE 1 ---
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
) 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the       
) 
Interstate Transmission System   
) 
  Docket No. RM26-4-000 
) 
COMMENTS OF ENGIE NORTH AMERICA, INC. 
(November 21, 2025) 
Pursuant to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (“Commission”) Notice 
Inviting Comments on the Department of Energy’s (“DOE”) proposed advance notice of 
proposed rulemaking1 (“Proposed ANOPR”) issued on October 27, 20252 (“Notice Inviting 
Comments”) and the Order on Notice on Requests for Extension of Time issued on November 7, 
2025, in the above captioned proceeding, ENGIE North America, Inc.3 (“ENGIE”) appreciates 
the opportunity to provide Initial Comments on the Proposed ANOPR.  ENGIE understands the 
urgency driving the need for further adjustments to the interconnection process to overcome the 
challenges and capture the opportunities presented by large loads and hybrid facilities 
interconnection. ENGIE supports the DOE’s and the Commission’s initiative. Given our first-
hand experience providing energy to and developing energy projects with large load customers 
across the country, ENGIE is pleased to share our perspective on how the Commission can 
1 Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Notice Inviting Comments, Docket No. 
RM26-4 (Oct. 27, 2025) (“Proposed ANOPR”). 
2Notice Inviting Comments, Docket No. RM26-4 (Oct. 27, 2025). 
3 ENGIE is a subsidiary of ENGIE SA, a global energy company and a leader in low-carbon energy systems with a 
mission to accelerate the transition towards a carbon-neutral world.  Globally, ENGIE owns and operates over 110 
GW of power generation, including 40 GW of renewable generation, the largest natural gas distribution network in 
Europe, 2,485 miles of transmission lines, and is a leading energy supplier to commercial and industrial customers. 
In the United States, where ENGIE has been engaged for decades, we own and operate over eleven GW of 
renewable generation and battery energy storage systems (“BESS”) and have several major partnerships with 
universities and medical campuses to manage their energy usage and decarbonization efforts.    

--- PAGE 2 ---
ENGIE Comments  
Docket No. RM26-04-000 
Page 2 
 
 
 
facilitate the efficient, timely, and non-discriminatory interconnection of large loads and hybrid 
facilities.  
I. 
INTRODUCTION  
 
Data centers are the infrastructure enabling the rapid advances in artificial intelligence 
(“AI”) underpinning the next industrial revolution. Current and expected future growth of the 
data center sector is unprecedented. As the Administration has recognized, the strategic 
importance of data centers cannot be overstated. The urgency to adapt the economy in order to 
leverage the commercial and security advantages of AI to secure our infrastructure and to 
preserve the nation’s technological leadership cannot be overstated.  
Regrettably, access to electricity has become a critical bottleneck for data centers, and 
other large load customers.  The availability of power infrastructure has not kept pace with the 
drive to build data centers. Data centers can often be built and commissioned more rapidly than 
power generation assets, often because the latter are stalled in long interconnection queues.  
DOE Secretary Wright’s October 27, 2025, letter to the Commission recognized that AI 
infrastructure must be able to interconnect to the grid efficiently, fairly, and expeditiously.4 
ENGIE supports the Proposed ANOPR’s emphasis on the long-standing principles of open 
access transmission service and recognizes the Commission’s efforts to reinforce the 
foundational principle.5  
ENGIE’s comments emphasize the need for a flexible, technology agnostic approach to 
large load interconnection that recognizes the reliability, economic and efficiency benefits of co-
locating generation and/or storage. ENGIE looks forward to continuing to work with the 
 
4 Letter from Chris Wright, Sec’y of Energy, U.S. Dep’t of Energy, to the Fed. Energy Regul. Comm’n (Oct. 23, 
2025). 
5 Proposed ANOPR, supra note 1, at  3-5. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
ENGIE Comments  
Docket No. RM26-04-000 
Page 3 
 
 
 
Commission, DOE, the Regional Transmission Organizations (“RTO”) and the Independent 
System Operators (“ISO”), the state authorities, and all stakeholders to develop and implement 
fair, practical and durable solutions.  
II. 
ENGIE LARGE LOAD AND HYBRID FACILITY INTERCONNECTION 
PRIORITIES  
 
ENGIE’s comments on the principles listed in the Proposed ANOPR are based on the 
following set of priorities ENGIE believes is necessary to rapidly integrate large loads and 
hybrid facilities into the bulk power system.  
a. Flexibility in implementation is paramount.  
 
ENGIE supports the Commission’s and the DOE’s efforts to provide nationwide 
standardization and uniformity of interconnection procedures for large loads. The Commission 
could consider drafting a pro forma co-located interconnection services agreement to provide 
consistent procedural guidance.  ENGIE emphasizes, however, that retaining flexibility is 
paramount. It will be essential that any new requirements take into account, and at times defer to 
regional differences and regional knowledge of system conditions. Flexibility is also needed to 
accommodate different types of co-location agreements. Robust regional stakeholder processes 
should be required and given adequate time to conclude prior to final compliance filings.  
b. Encourage large loads to co-locate with local generation and/or storage.  
 
Co-locating large loads with generation and/or storage should be emphasized as the 
primary solution to impacts caused by large loads interconnecting to the bulk electric system. 
c. Allow netting of co-located resources. 
 
Allowing large loads and co-located generation to net meter is the most efficient way to 
interconnect large loads. Netting of load and generation reduces the need for unnecessary system 
upgrades and associated costs, and decreases the need for subsidies which reduces ratepayer 

--- PAGE 4 ---
ENGIE Comments  
Docket No. RM26-04-000 
Page 4 
 
 
 
costs. Netting supports a market-based approach that encourages private investment in new 
generation that incentivizes loads to co-locate at the most curtailed and congested points on the 
grid.  
d. Rules governing co-located generation should be technology agnostic.  
 
New large loads should be able to select the type of accompanying generation or storage 
as well as the location of the facility. 
e. Make expedited interconnection available for co-located large loads with 
local generation and/or storage.  
 
Expedited interconnection, and separate interconnection queues should be permitted for 
large loads that bring their own generation or storage and that agree to be curtailable or 
dispatchable. 
III. 
ENGIE COMMENTS ON PROPOSED PRINCIPLES FOR LARGE LOAD 
INTERCONNECTION.  
 
a. Principle Two: Setting a megawatt threshold for facilities eligible to benefit 
from the reforms is reasonable but consideration should be given to regions 
based on system conditions.  
 
The Proposed ANOPR is seeking comments on the size of new loads to which reforms 
should apply.  Specifically, the Commission is seeking comments on whether the reforms should 
apply to new loads greater than 20 MW and for hybrid facilities, where the load is greater than 
20 MW.6 ENGIE appreciates the Commission’s desire to standardize the interconnection process 
by selecting a megawatt threshold that may apply to all regions across the country. ENGIE 
agrees that large loads may have a more pronounced effect on grid stability, transmission 
planning, and resource adequacy and that focusing reforms on these loads ensures that the most 
impactful projects are studied and integrated with appropriate rigor.   
 
6 Ibid. at 11. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
ENGIE Comments  
Docket No. RM26-04-000 
Page 5 
 
 
 
While ENGIE does not take a strong view on whether 20 MW is the appropriate 
threshold, we suggest that the 20 MW threshold may be too low for the types of large loads that 
typically drive new transmission needs. Many of the large loads that require specific solutions or 
that are having a significant impact on the reliability of the bulk energy system require capacity 
in the hundreds of megawatts. As a result, it is possible that a 20 MW threshold would capture 
mid-size or commercial facilities that do not pose system risk.  Doing so could increase the 
regulatory burden for these facilities and pose an undue burden on grid operators and 
transmission providers in the interconnection review and study process. Also, at this level 
concerns over federal regulatory overreach into state jurisdiction become more credible. 
Further, ENGIE recommends that the Commission consider regional system differences 
if implementing a specific megawatt threshold.  ENGIE’s experience is that the ability of the 
transmission system to integrate large loads is largely a system reliability question which is 
based heavily on the specific characteristics of the network and location where a large load or 
hybrid facility is looking to interconnect. Therefore, ENGIE recommends that the Commission 
allow for flexibility in implementation of a given megawatt threshold by deferring to the regions 
in setting a reasonable threshold.  The Commission should require that ISOs and RTOs conduct a 
transparent stakeholder process to determine an appropriate threshold while relying on relevant 
system and queue data.  
b. Principle Three: Load and hybrid facilities should be studied together with 
generating facilities. 
 
The Commission proposes that load and hybrid facilities should be studied together with 
generating facilities to the extent practicable.7 ENGIE strongly supports this principle. We 
 
7 Ibid. at 11. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
ENGIE Comments  
Docket No. RM26-04-000 
Page 6 
 
 
 
believe that a more holistic approach to system planning, including the studying of all types of 
facilities together, provides a more complete picture of how new facilities will interact with the 
electric grid. Studying facilities together will also improve accuracy in identifying system 
impacts and upgrade needs. Combining studies can reduce duplication, streamline timelines, and 
lower administrative burdens for both developers and grid operators. Importantly, hybrid 
facilities often have complex operational profiles. Studying them alongside generation allows 
planners to account for net load, ramping capabilities and flexibility contributions.  
Further, studying load and hybrid facilities along with generation that the load brings to 
the electric grid may also increase the speed of interconnection of the load by decreasing the 
number of megawatts the load requires to draw from the grid to operate its facility.  For example, 
a 1 GW load with a 500 MW generating facility may only need to draw 500 MW of power from 
the grid.  As a result, the interconnecting load will have a smaller impact on the grid and is likely 
to require fewer and less expensive system upgrades to interconnect.  
ENGIE would like to highlight the Southwest Power Pool’s (“SPP”) soon to be 
implemented Coordinated Planning Process (“CPP”) for being the most robust, holistic planning 
process of any ISO/RTO. Once implemented it is expected to cut administrative costs by 
reducing redundant studies, combining processes, and reducing generator interconnection study 
timelines. CPP will also pre-identify grid needs before interconnection requests are submitted 
and integrates future grid evolution, resource expansion, and reliability panning into one 
framework.  
ENGIE recognizes that studying load and generation together is not how grid planners 
have historically approached grid planning. Joint studies may add increased complexity to the 
interconnection process, at least initially.  This approach is likely to require more sophisticated 

--- PAGE 7 ---
ENGIE Comments  
Docket No. RM26-04-000 
Page 7 
 
 
 
modeling and data inputs as well as increased ISO/RTO resources. Existing rules may not fully 
support integrated studies. Updates to tariffs, modeling tools and stakeholder processes may be 
necessary.  However, moving towards holistic planning will bring long-term gains to the 
interconnection process, and lead to a more cost-efficient bulk power system for ratepayers, 
through increased efficiency, accuracy and certainty that are essential for modernizing and 
strengthening the system.  
c. Principle Four: Load and hybrid facilities should be subject to standardized 
study deposits, readiness requirements, and withdrawal penalties.  
 
The Proposed ANOPR requests information related to commitments or financial penalties 
that load and hybrid facilities should bear in the interconnection process.  ENGIE supports 
assigning load and hybrid facilities financial and other responsibilities to ensure transparency, 
fairness and efficiency in the interconnection process.  ENGIE also supports transparency and 
accountability in the interconnection process by requiring transmission providers to publish 
tariffs with clear and well understood timelines for deposit requirements. Tariffs should also 
include provisions that clearly state interconnection study timelines and study length as well as 
require that transmission providers complete the studies within the expected timeframe.  
Financial requirements, including deposits of $5,000-$10,000 per megawatt of load are 
reasonable as are penalties for facilities that exit interconnection studies. Interconnection 
deposits should be used to contribute towards construction costs. ENGIE encourages the 
Commission to also consider reasonable readiness requirements, similar to generator 
interconnection reforms, including site control documentation and evidence of financial viability, 
such as load service agreements or offtake agreements.  
 

--- PAGE 8 ---
ENGIE Comments  
Docket No. RM26-04-000 
Page 8 
 
 
 
d. Principle Five: Hybrid facilities should be studied based on the amount of 
injection and/or withdrawal rights requested.  
 
The Proposed ANOPR requests comments on whether hybrid facilities should be studied 
based on their requested level of injection or withdrawal rights. ENGIE strongly supports this 
proposal for several reasons. First, focusing on the requested injection and withdrawal level will 
increase the accuracy of the interconnection process by aligning interconnection studies with the 
facility’s actual impact on the grid. This approach will also increase efficiency in study scope as 
it avoids overstudying facilities whose load will be offset by co-located generation and/or 
storage. This reduces unnecessary modeling and helps to accelerate study timelines.  
Third, studying the requested withdrawal and injection rates of a hybrid facility also 
encourages generation and load to partner to solve for least impact on the grid in order to capture 
the benefits of a more accurate and efficient interconnection and study process.  Fourth, it may 
speed up the interconnection process as hybrid facilities’ interconnection requests are likely to be 
smaller by megawatts and require fewer and less costly infrastructure upgrades to interconnect.  
Further, during the study process hybrid facilities should also be given the choice to ramp 
down their injection or withdrawal in the peak demand modelling scenarios. These facilities can 
tailor their operations to account for grid limitations which benefits the system and may also 
avoid costly and lengthy grid upgrades which supports a more rapid interconnection of load and 
generation.  
Finally, the technology necessary to prevent flows to the grid is being deployed in 
facilities across the country.  Technology should not be a limitation to studying and developing 
hybrid facilities based on their requested withdrawal and injection rights.  
 

--- PAGE 9 ---
ENGIE Comments  
Docket No. RM26-04-000 
Page 9 
 
 
 
e. Principle Six: Hybrid interconnection applicants can and should install system 
protection facilities to prevent unauthorized injection or withdrawals to the grid.  
 
The Proposed ANOPR suggests that hybrid interconnection applicants should be 
responsible for installing system protection facilities necessary to prevent unauthorized injections 
or withdrawals that exceed the respective rights. 8  ENGIE agrees. Technology to prevent 
unauthorized flows exists and is currently in use.  As long as injection and withdrawal rights are 
agreed upon between the facility and the transmission provider and are clearly delineated in the 
interconnection agreement, a hybrid facility will be able to satisfy the operational parameters. 
Aso, hybrid facility owners should have the flexibility to install protection systems of their 
choice as long as they meet the requisite industry standards.   
f. Principle Seven: The interconnection of large loads and hybrid facilities that 
agree to be curtailable and dispatchable should be expedited.  
 
The Proposed ANOPR states that interconnection of large loads and hybrid facilities that 
agree to be curtailable and dispatchable through verifiable flexibility should be expedited.9  
ENGIE supports the concept of expedited interconnection for these types of facilities where load 
brings its own generation and/or storage. ENGIE recommends that the Commission consider 
establishing a separate queue for this purpose.  
While a large load that brings its own generation can reassure a transmission provider 
that it does not need to withdraw electricity from the grid at all times, the outstanding question is 
what level of flexibility is required in order to rationalize expediting a facility’s interconnection 
request. The level of curtailment or dispatchability needed is location specific and depends on 
the robustness of the bulk energy system at that location. Consideration should be given to the 
 
8 Ibid. at 12. 
9 Ibid. at 12.  

--- PAGE 10 ---
ENGIE Comments  
Docket No. RM26-04-000 
Page 10 
 
 
 
magnitude of the load that needs to be curtailed and the magnitude in the decrease in system 
impact that must be shown to be eligible for expedited treatment. In terms of generation, how 
many or what percentage of megawatts needs to be dispatchable for the generating facility to be 
eligible for expedited treatment.  
ENGIE recommends that flexibility should be defined in terms of notice, percentage, 
duration and frequency. Consideration should be given to: how much advance warning a facility 
is given before the facility is required to change its output or operation mode; the proportion of 
the facility’s capacity that must be adjustable; how long the facility must sustain the requested 
change; and the number of events per year. If these requirements are left unparameterized a 
project will struggle with commercial feasibility. It is next to impossible for a facility to plan 
around the requirements and there is almost no way to finance facilities that are exposed to these 
types of undefined risks.   
ENGIE supports a standard flexibility approach within an ISO/RTO which will allow for 
a knowable and transparent design and encourage standardization across multiple hybrid sites. 
However, if the Commission standardizes curtailment and dispatchability requirements, ENGIE 
recommends that the Commission allow for regional differences amongst the various RTOs/ISOs 
and permit them to propose region-specific thresholds for curtailment and dispatchability when 
warranted.  
g. Principle Eight: Load and hybrid facilities should be responsible for 100 percent 
of the network upgrades they are assigned through interconnection studies.  
 
The Proposed ANOPR advances the principle that load and hybrid facilities should be 
responsible for 100 percent of the network upgrades that they are assigned through the 

--- PAGE 11 ---
ENGIE Comments  
Docket No. RM26-04-000 
Page 11 
 
 
 
interconnection studies.10  ENGIE agrees that facilities should pay costs appropriately allocated 
to them during the interconnection study process. Costs assigned to the facilities should not be 
socialized to ratepayers or other market participants.   
How interconnection costs are allocated, however, is a complex question that requires 
additional investigation.  If the upgrade is needed due to a constraint caused by the proposed 
interconnecting facility and if the facility will receive a localized benefit, then the facility should 
pay for the network upgrade. However, if there are system benefits gained through upgrades paid 
by the facility, but the benefits also accrue to the system then the system should pay for those 
costs.  
Finally, ENGIE does not believe that a crediting mechanism is necessary as large load 
and hybrid interconnection costs should be paid for by the facilities themselves. A credit 
mechanism may risk shifting costs onto ratepayers.   
h. Principle Nine: Where the interconnection customer is not the transmission 
owner, it shall be afforded the same option to build as provided to generator 
interconnection customers.  
 
The Proposed ANOPR requests comments on whether load should be given an option to 
build that is similar to an interconnecting generator’s option to build. ENGIE supports an 
interconnection customer’s option to build as it provides maximum flexibility in the development 
process.11  In certain circumstances, exercising an option to build can be less costly and more 
expedient thus providing the ability to bring on large loads sooner. It may also lead to improved 
coordination opportunities between developers and load customers on shared infrastructure or 
joint planning and a better use of the transmission system.  
 
10 Ibid. at 12.  
11 Ibid. at 13.  

--- PAGE 12 ---
ENGIE Comments  
Docket No. RM26-04-000 
Page 12 
 
 
 
i. Principle Ten: An existing generating facility that seeks to enter a partial 
suspension to serve a new load at the same location must go through a system 
support resource/reliability must run type of study looking out at least three 
years.  
 
The Proposed ANOPR requests comments on whether generating facilities seeking to 
enter a partial suspension to serve a new load be studied for resource adequacy purposes.12  
ENGIE agrees that these facilities should be studied. All generating facilities that seek to 
partially suspend their operations, including for this reason, should be studied for the reliability 
and resource adequacy impact the suspension may pose to the grid. Any potential risk to the 
reliable operation of the bulk energy system should be studied to ensure there is no risk.  
j. Principle Eleven: Utilities serving large loads, including those at hybrid facilities, 
should be responsible for transmission service based on their withdrawal rights. 
 
The Proposed ANOPR posits that utilities serving large loads and hybrid facilities should 
be responsible for transmission service based on their withdrawal rights.13 ENGIE agrees with 
what appears to be the underlying goal of this principle, which is that large loads should pay for 
the services the plan for.  Also, this principle reflects a reasonable standard assumption: that 
withdrawal rights should be based on the capacity agreement and not utilization. Basing 
transmission level service on the facility’s withdrawal rights is beneficial for the bulk energy 
system for several reasons.  
First, it increases cost transparency and fairness by aligning transmission service charges 
with expected usage and cost, ensuring that large loads pay proportionally for the capacity they 
reserve. This could be accomplished through a take or pay construct where a large load 
interconnection customer agrees to take a minimum quantity of service or pay a penalty or a 
 
12 Ibid. at 13.  
13 Ibid. at 13.  

--- PAGE 13 ---
ENGIE Comments  
Docket No. RM26-04-000 
Page 13 
 
 
 
predetermined fee if it does not. Second, it also encourages efficient load siting as large loads 
may be incentivized to locate near existing transmission capacity to minimize withdrawal-based 
costs. Third, it supports better grid planning by potentially dissuading large load developers from 
submitting speculatively large interconnection requests. This may lead to increased efficiency in 
the interconnection study process and improved planning accuracy.     
k. Principle Twelve: Utilities serving large loads, including those at hybrid 
facilities, should be responsible for ancillary services based on peak demand, 
without consideration of any co-located generation. Any co-located generating 
facilities will similarly be fully compensated for the provision of ancillary 
services. 
 
The Proposed ANOPR states that utilities serving large loads and hybrid facilities should 
be responsible for ancillary services based on peak demand without consideration of co-located 
generation.14 ENGIE finds this principle is problematic because it ignores the operational reality 
and fairness considerations of hybrid facilities. If facilities are charged based solely on peak 
demand, without netting co-located generation, it treats the site as if the generation does not 
exist. It also overstates the grid support needed as the on-site generation and/or energy storage 
reduces the facility’s net impact on the system.  
Further, ENGIE believes that allowing met metering of large loads and co-located 
generation is essential to increasing the rate of large load interconnection. Since hybrid facilities 
invest in co-located generation and/or storage to reduce grid reliance and improve resilience, not 
allowing the netting of the co-located generation and/or storage penalizes the facility and 
discourages investment in generation and/or storage.  In terms of cost allocation, charging based 
on gross load shifts costs unfairly to customers who have already invested in mitigating their grid 
impact.  
 
14 Ibid. at 12.  

--- PAGE 14 ---
ENGIE Comments  
Docket No. RM26-04-000 
Page 14 
 
 
 
A better approach would be to allow hybrid facilities to net peak demand or coincident 
peak adjusted for onsite generation and/or storage.  
The Proposed ANOPR also suggests that co-located generating facilities should be 
compensated for ancillary services they provide. ENGIE supports the Proposed ANOPR’s 
position.  As a matter of fairness, generators at hybrid facilities should earn full compensation for 
providing ancillary services like any other generator. In addition, this revenue stream will help to 
improve project economics and return on investment which may lead to a more rapid deployment 
of generation to support interconnecting large loads.       
l. Principle Thirteen: A reasonable and transparent transition plan is essential to 
the orderly implementation of changes to accommodate large load and hybrid 
facility interconnection. 
 
The Proposed ANOPR requests stakeholder comments on what are appropriate transition 
plans, including the for large load interconnections that are already being studied for 
interconnection.15 ENGIE appreciates the focus on the transition process and believes that 
fairness and efficiency should be the guiding principles throughout the transition.    
ENGIE believes that creating a separate queue for hybrid facilities in the near term would 
facilitate the interconnection of large loads. Large loads that bring their own generation and/or 
storage are likely to have fewer and less costly needed upgrades, a lower impact on the bulk 
energy system, and a more rapid interconnection process because the net additional burden to the 
bulk energy system is likely to be less significant. These facilities should be able to interconnect 
more quickly. Ultimately, however, the interconnection study process should revert to a single 
process as parallel processes may not be efficient in the long run.  
 
15 Ibid. at 13.  

--- PAGE 15 ---
ENGIE Comments  
Docket No. RM26-04-000 
Page 15 
 
 
 
For large loads and generation and/or storage that are already in the interconnection study 
queue, in order to provide regulatory certainty to ensure project viability, it will be necessary for 
the facilities to retain their current queue position for some amount of time. A level of 
grandfathering of existing interconnection requests that are already in the study process would 
provide certainty for the developers.  Also, existing interconnection customers should be 
permitted to opt into the new framework if it offers financial or operational advantages.   
In terms of interconnection studies, ideally, large loads studied together with generation 
and transmission assets will benefit all entities as this will ensure the highest level of 
coordination.     
ENGIE acknowledges that running two parallel queue systems could be challenging. 
Stakeholders will have to work collaboratively to come to an agreement on the framework. 
Stakeholder engagement and a post-implementation review process for disputes would increase 
transparency, buy-in and regulatory accountability during the transition. 
m. Principle Fourteen: Utilities serving large loads must meet all applicable NERC 
reliability standards and OATT provisions. 
 
The Proposed ANOPR seeks to confirm that utilities serving large loads must meet all of 
the applicable North American Electric Reliability Corporation (“NERC”) reliability standards 
and Open Access Transmission Tariff (“OATT”) provisions. ENGIE agrees. Such standards are 
essential for the reliable operation of the bulk power system. ENGIE sees no rationale for 
exempting utilities or their customers from adhering to the relevant standards.    
IV. 
CONCLUSION 
The United States is experiencing rapid industrial change at a scale not witnessed for 
many decades. The Commission has an opportunity to establish clear and reasonable rules that 
will support the efficient and reliable interconnection of new large loads and hybrid facilities. 

--- PAGE 16 ---
ENGIE Comments  
Docket No. RM26-04-000 
Page 16 
 
 
 
ENGIE encourages the Commission to issue a final rule that prioritizes flexibility and 
coordination between load and generation and storage interconnections, and recognizes the 
importance and provides expedited treatment for co-located generation and storage. We 
respectfully request that the Commission accept our comments and recommendations regarding 
the Proposed ANOPR to improve the interconnection of large loads and hybrid facilities across 
the country. 
  Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
/s/ Sarah Bresolin Silver 
 
Sarah Bresolin Silver 
Vice President  
Government and Regulatory Affairs 
1360 Post Oak Blvd.  
Houston, TX 77056 
(617) 717-4535 
sarah.bresolin@engie.com 
 
 

--- PAGE 17 ---
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
 
 
The undersigned certifies that a copy of this pleading has been served this day upon each 
person designated on the official service list compiled by the Secretary in this proceeding. 
 
Dated at Boston, MA this 21st day of November 2025. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/ Sarah Bresolin Silver 
Sarah Bresolin Silver 
Vice President  
Government & Regulatory Affairs 
ENGIE North America, Inc.  
1360 Post Oak Blvd.  
Houston, TX 77056 
(617) 717-4535 
sarah.bresolin@gmail.com 
 
 
 
