--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
1
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE  
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
 
) 
 
Docket No. RM26-4 
Interstate Transmission System  
 
 
)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COMMENTS OF SPLIGHT INC. 
Splight Inc. (“Splight”)1 respectfully submits these comments in response to the Federal 
Energy Regulatory Commission’s (“Commission”) Notice Inviting Comments (“Notice”) in the 
above-referenced proceeding. Splight appreciates the Commission’s leadership in addressing the 
urgent need to streamline and standardize the interconnection of large loads on the transmission 
system.  We particularly appreciate the agency’s recognition of the potential benefits to be 
captured through adoption of technological innovation in support of that process, given the rapid 
growth of demand the Notice attempts to address. 
I. 
COMMUNICATIONS 
Communications and correspondence regarding this filing should be directed to the following:  
Helen Kemp 
Director, Regulatory Affairs 
Splight Inc. 
201 W 5th Street, Ste. 1600 
Austin, TX 78701 
Email: helen.kemp@splight.com  
 
II. 
INTRODUCTION 
Founded in 2021, Splight is an international provider of scalable grid technology solutions 
with operations in North America, Latin America, and Europe. Splight has developed and 
 
1 splight.com/about-us 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
 
2
deployed a new digital, transmission operating technology that increases transmission capability 
while also adding reliability and flexibility to the grid’s operation. Splight’s platform uses 
advanced computing and real-time controls and communications to, among other things, 
automatically and dynamically modulate demand or injection on a transmission system in order 
to accommodate actual system capacity in response to (or in anticipation of) a system failure. 
This feature, Dynamic Congestion Management (“DCM”), is a type of software-forward 
advanced contingency response tool that can increase the usable capacity of existing grid assets 
by removing concerns about large load impact on the grid post contingency. DCM can thereby 
create interconnection capacity temporarily to accommodate new loads or facilitate outage 
management while new networks are built out. DCM can remain in place as a visualization tool 
and extra protective layer, ensuring reliability of grid systems as they continually expand in scale 
and complexity. Alternatively, this technology can also be used by system operators manage 
contingencies in real-time by interacting directly with inverter-based resources or loads. 
In the letter dated October 23, 2025, entitled Secretary of Energy’s Direction that the Federal 
Energy Regulatory Commission Initiate Rulemaking Procedures and Proposal Regarding the 
Interconnection of Large Loads Pursuant to the Secretary’s Authority Under Section 403 of the 
Department of Energy Organization Act, which attached a draft Advanced Notice of Propose 
Rulemaking (“ANOPR”), the Department of Energy (“DOE”) set out fourteen proposed 
principles for the Commission to adhere to in a subsequent rulemaking process for the regulation 
of large load interconnection procedures. In the following comments, Splight offers a 
recommendation related to the seventh of those principles, as well as a suggestion to facilitate its 
implementation through the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (“NERC”).   

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
 
3
III. 
RESPONSE TO PROPOSED EXPEDITED INTERCONNECTION STUDY 
FOR CURTAILABLE LARGE LOADS 
In Paragraph 24 of the ANOPR, the DOE proposes that the interconnection studies of large 
loads and hybrid facilities which agree to be curtailable should be expedited (“Seventh 
Principle”). These loads reduce risks to the grid in a way that warrants such treatment; not only 
should they receive expedited treatment but should be analyzed for their actual impact on the 
grid. Splight strongly supports this principle and respectfully urges the Commission to go further 
by explicitly recognizing the value of large loads that implement advanced, automated 
contingency response technologies (“Fast-Responding Loads”) as a basis for both (1) expedited 
interconnection and (2) allocation of increased capacity in proportional to the speed and amount 
of curtailment a load is able to provide. Splight’s DCM technology exemplifies the type of 
reliability-enhancing mechanism that can be relied upon by utilities and system operators to 
address transmission adequacy and system security as they seek to integrate new large loads.  
Resource Adequacy Benefits of Traditional Flexible Loads Warrant Expedited Study and 
Additional Non-Firm Capacity 
Today, there are multiple methods and mechanisms for loads to respond within several 
seconds or up to several hours to address resource adequacy, or the availability of energy and 
certain reserve services (generally referred to as “Flexible Loads”). Flexible Loads should indeed 
be considered for expedited interconnection as non-firm loads, if they are willing and able to 
respond to the availability of energy and ancillary services for their operation, at least until 
networks can be built out. This would allow such loads to come online sooner than they would 
ordinarily. Additional capacity for curtailable load would tie the speed of curtailment to the 
relevant most limiting transmission line rating (e.g., Flexible Loads with a 10-minute response 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
 
4
time could receive capacity proportional to the capacity increase allotted with the 15-minute 
emergency rating). This is already a common practice in some jurisdictions. 
Transmission Resilience Benefits of Fast-Responding Loads Justify Increased Capacity 
Allocation  
Where transmission adequacy is the fundamental limitation, Fast-Responding Loads 
should be studied based on their ability to modify demand near-instantaneously in the event of a 
transmission system failure (for example, Splight’s DCM can respond in less than 500 
milliseconds) and, should be considered for expedited interconnection as firm loads. Fast-
Responding Loads offer an alternative pathway to maintain adherence to the N-1 or N-1-1 
planning and operating criteria, while expanding load service. In effect, Fast-Responding Loads 
have no or reduced impact on an N-1 condition, because of their ability to absent themselves 
before a system failure impacts remaining system assets post contingency. By incorporating this 
advanced responsiveness, Fast-Responding Loads allow the system to operate at up to the full 
physical capacity of the grid, except in the rare event of a system failure, thus freeing enough of 
the system capacity to serve double the amount of demand interconnected. Accordingly, with 
agreement of the system operator, ratings on the transmission line system serving one or more 
Fast-Responding Loads (and/or generation assets with similar capabilities) can be increased. 
That newly created contingent capacity can be allocated to the Fast-Responding Load(s). 
Because contingencies are generally infrequent, Fast-Responding Loads are significantly less 
likely to be interrupted than Flexible Loads. Potentially, never. 
While the large loads would lead adoption of the needed technical capability required, 
collaboration between the large load and utility is required to implement this type of solution: the 
software monitors the status of the wider grid and responds to contingencies if and when they 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
 
5
occur, while the utility (and ISO if any) can maintain full visibility and access. Because the 
additional usable capacity is created using software and real-time controls, there is minimal cost, 
making this option attractive—even if used only temporarily while the system is returned to the 
level of physical asset redundancy required to achieve N-1 without active asset management. 
Further, any utility cost for participating in these technology solutions can be paid for by the load 
as a discretionary service under the existing FERC tariff.  This ensures that other rate payers are 
not picking up the bill for implementation of this contingent interconnection technology.  Using 
low-cost, high-tech software solutions such as Splight’s DCM platform, by accelerating the 
interconnection of Fast-Responding Large Loads, also allow the utility to begin collecting 
revenues from the load even as the network expansion is underway, again minimizing any 
concerns about cross subsidies by existing customers.  
Summary of Splight Recommendations Related to the Seventh Principle 
The capabilities described above directly align with the goal of the Seventh Principle. By 
incorporating the fast-responding capabilities of such technologies into interconnection studies, 
system operators will more accurately model the reliability impacts and contributions of large 
loads. As such, Splight recommends that the Commission adopt a framework that: 
1. Recognizes automated contingency response systems as a valid and enforceable basis 
for limiting their potential impact on the grid and granting Fast-Responding Loads 
expedited study as firm loads under the Seventh Principle; 
2. Incorporates performance-based criteria to analyze and allocate additional capacity 
for Flexible Loads and Fast-Responding Loads; and 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
 
6
3. Encourages innovation and technology solutions that enhance reliability, increase asset 
utilization, and reduce interconnection timelines. 
This approach would not only support the DOE and Commission’s objectives of timely and 
efficient interconnection but also promote grid modernization and economic development by 
enabling large loads to come online faster and with more capacity without compromising 
reliability. 
IV. 
RECOMMENDATION FOR MODIFICATION OF FERC OPEN ACCESS 
TARIFF 
Additionally, the Commission should explore the potential for embedding a performance 
incentive in the current transmission tariff that would reward a transmission owner/operator for 
the adoption of technology and/or practices that increase the useful and usable capacity of 
existing transmission systems, even as a bridge to completion of new transmission infrastructure, 
or for participation with a large load and/or ISO adopting technology to achieve those same ends. 
Developing the capability to manage, enable or participate in the real-time management of Fast-
Responding Loads—those capable of responding quickly enough to protect the bulk electric 
system pre-, and even post-contingency—should be rewarded. It allows the utility to accelerate 
the interconnection of loads while the system is being built out, moves the revenue stream 
forward years, and thereby assures smaller existing consumers are not paying the burden of 
system build out. As noted, Fast-Responding Loads can pay for the implementation of the 
systems required on their own site and for enabling data access by the utility, as a discretionary 
service under the existing FERC tariff. Unlike transmission protection schemes, the more Fast-
Responding Loads (and inverter-based resources) that are interconnected and managed by such 
advanced transmission operating systems, the more reliable the system will become. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
 
7
V. 
RECOMMENDATION FOR ADDITIONAL DIRECTIVE TO NERC  
To further address barriers to large load integration and the proliferations of advanced 
contingency management solutions, we urge the Commission to direct NERC to clarify its 
standards and definitions. First, NERC should interpret that the implementation by large loads of 
advanced contingency response capability, i.e., those using intelligent algorithms and real-time 
computing to self-operate without necessitating breaker action, are not considered Remedial 
Action Schemes (RAS). The software that provides this type of contingency response for 
qualifying Fast-Responding Loads should simply be viewed as a means of advanced load 
responsiveness. It does not violate existing protection schemes and is not centrally controlled by 
the utility. This enabling control technology differs fundamentally from utility implemented, 
traditional, pre-programmed RAS and should not be constrained by PRC-012-2 compliance 
requirements as currently written. This interpretation would remove a major obstacle to 
deploying innovative solutions that enhance transmission capability and system resilience.  
If NERC does not expeditiously adopt this interpretation, then at the very least, NERC should 
take measures to allow large load owners to propose, own, and manage RAS directly. Current 
rules omit large load owners from eligibility as RAS-Entities, forcing reliance on transmission 
owners to submit application. Allowing qualified large loads to directly manage and implement 
RAS actions such as dynamic load reduction (in cooperation with their utility), would improve 
reliability and accelerate infrastructure development without compromising bulk electric system 
security.  
VI. 
CONCLUSION 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
 
8
Splight commends the Commission for its forward-looking approach in this Notice and urges 
it to explicitly recognize the role of advanced contingency response technologies in enabling the 
reliable and efficient interconnection of Fast-Responding Loads. By doing so, the Commission 
can help unlock significant transmission capacity, reduce interconnection backlogs, relieve 
consumer cross-subsidies, and support the nation’s growing demand for electricity in a secure 
and sustainable manner. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
/s/ Helen Kemp 
Helen Kemp 
Director, Regulatory Affairs 
Splight Inc. 
201 W 5th Street, Ste. 1600 
Austin, TX 78701 
Email: helen.kemp@splight.com 
Dated: November 21, 2025 
