--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
 
December 2, 2025 
 
Chairman Laura Swett 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
888 First Street, NE 
Washington, DC 20426 
 
Re: Comments on the Proposed ANOPR on Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate 
Transmission System issued on October 23rd, 2025.  
 
Dear Chairman Swett and Commissioners of FERC,  
 
I write to encourage the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to prioritize lower costs for consumers 
when considering an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANOPR) concerning the interconnection of 
large loads, such as data centers, as suggested by the U.S. Department of Energy (DoE) Secretary, Chris Wright, 
on October 23rd, 2025.  
 
Energy costs are soaring. On average, New York State residents have experienced a $190 annual increase in 
electricity spending over the past year.1 In New York’s 22nd Congressional District, utility bills have recently 
increased by more than 10 percent and it’s expected that average households will see a $600 annual increase 
over the next three years.2 Many constituents have reached out  to share concerns over how their rate increases 
will impact their lives, straining their ability to purchase things like groceries or gas or even forcing them to 
make hard decisions like choosing between paying for health care or heating their home.  
 
Additional work to address our growing energy crisis – a cost crisis for many consumers – is essential. 
Unfortunately, much of the federal legislative and regulatory efforts around energy policy this year have failed 
to address the growing need for more affordable energy. The One Big Beautiful Bill Act eliminated tax credits 
formerly available to homeowners trying to lower their energy costs through insulating their windows and doors 
or even installing solar panels. Additionally, the DoE recently terminated $7.56 billion in energy grants across 
the United States that would’ve brought down costs for consumers. In Dewitt, New York, DoE cancelled a 
$5,005,252 grant awarded to Bitzer Scroll Inc. for electric heat pumps, taking twenty new jobs with it.  
 
While there are many contributing factors leading to raising energy prices, one driving factor is the growth of 
new technologies – like AI – and the resulting data center boom, which places a high demand on an already 
struggling grid. To put this energy demand into perspective, it’s estimated that AI-focused data centers consume 
 
1 https://www.eia.gov/electricity/data/eia861m/ 
2 https://www.syracuse.com/news/2025/08/state-approves-national-grid-rate-hike-that-will-increase-many-household-bills-
by-600-a-year.html 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
 
 
 
as much electricity as 100,000 households, with future facilities expected to use 20 times as much.3 Working 
families and seniors living on fixed incomes shouldn’t be subsidizing the energy costs of data centers and other 
large load customers. As we advance new energy intensive projects, we must ensure that consumer prices and 
the interests of the American taxpayer guide any new rules or regulatory changes. 
 
The federal government must use every tool available to grow domestic sources of affordable energy and 
prevent additional cost-shifting onto the average consumer. Creative solutions are essential to ensure that we 
utilize every megawatt available and update existing grid infrastructure to make sure additional energy demand 
does not result in increased costs for consumers. To that end, I am cautiously optimistic about Secretary 
Wright’s recent request for FERC to develop a regulatory framework regarding the interconnection of large 
loads. As FERC considers regulatory action, I urge the Commission to prioritize policies that result in lower 
energy costs for consumers.  
 
When considering new rules to remedy the reality of energy intensive projects being added to the grid and also 
rising energy costs for consumers, FERC will have to answer questions around parameters, enforceability, and 
other factors for new projects. These important details will require careful consideration and specificity, and I 
encourage FERC to take the time necessary to develop a comprehensive and sustainable regulatory framework 
that puts consumers first. Should FERC pursue ambiguity in any rule to meet an arbitrarily condensed timeline, 
it will undermine an opportunity to lower energy costs for consumers.  
 
If FERC and DoE are serious about implementing a creative rule that will both lower costs for consumers and 
recognize the growing need for data centers and energy heavy projects, they must prioritize affordability and 
take the time necessary to get the policy right so that it lowers costs for consumers. There is a real opportunity 
to lower costs for NY22 and the rest of America, and it should not be wasted. Folks from Central New York, the 
Mohawk Valley, and every community across America should be able to heat their home, turn on the lights, and 
have peace of mind that doing so won’t break the bank. 
 
Thank you for your attention to these concerns. I welcome further dialogue and stand ready to assist in shaping 
a future that balances energy costs and new technologies.  
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
John Mannion  
Member of Congress 
 
 
3 https://www.pewresearch.org/short-reads/2025/10/24/what-we-know-about-energy-use-at-us-data-centers-amid-the-ai-
boom/ 
