--- PAGE 1 ---
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate : 
Docket No. RM26-4-000  
Transmission System  
 
 
 
: 
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL COMMENTS OF WIRES 
 
Pursuant to Rule 2121 of the Rules of Practice and Procedure of the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission (“Commission” or “FERC”), WIRES,2 on behalf of its members, 
respectfully moves for leave to submit the following supplemental comments to the Advance 
Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) in the captioned docket.3  These supplemental 
comments are for the purpose of placing into the docket the attached Whitepaper titled “The 
Risks of Cost Shifts in Serving Large Loads Under a Framework with Direct Allocation of 
Transmission Costs,”4 recently released by Concentric Energy Advisers and undertaken on 
behalf of Exelon Corporation.  The purpose of this Whitepaper is to provide the Commission 
with additional information to inform any proposal concerning direct assignment in this docket 
or related proceedings. 
 
1 18 C.F.R. § 212 (2025). 
2 WIRES is a non-profit trade association of investor-, publicly-, and cooperatively-owned transmission providers 
and developers, transmission customers, regional grid managers, and equipment and service companies.  WIRES 
promotes investment in electric transmission and consumer reliability and additional benefits through development 
of electric transmission infrastructure.  This filing is supported by the full supporting members of WIRES but does 
not necessarily reflect the views of the Regional Transmission Organization/Independent System Operator 
(“RTO/ISO”) members of WIRES.  For more information about WIRES, please visit www.wiresgroup.com. 
3 Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Notice Inviting Comments, Docket 
No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 27, 2025) (the Commission issued the ANOPR following a directive from the Secretary of 
Energy (“Secretary”) pursuant to section 203 of the Department of Energy Organization Act); see also the full text 
of the proposed ANOPR, Ensuring the Timely and Orderly Interconnection of Large Loads, Advance Notice of 
Proposed Rulemaking, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 23, 2025). 
4 See Concentric Energy Advisors, The Risks of Cost Shifts in Serving Large Loads Under a Framework with Direct 
Allocation of Transmission Costs (March 30, 2026) (“Whitepaper”). 

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
 
The Whitepaper sets forth an analysis of the ANOPR’s proposal to allocate 100 percent of 
network upgrade costs to large load customers and illustrates the potential for unintended cost 
shifts to retail customers under certain implementation scenarios.  Because the analysis and 
findings presented in the Whitepaper are directly pertinent to the issues under consideration in 
this docket, WIRES submits the Whitepaper to inform possible future Commission action in this 
proceeding, as well as any other proceedings concerning cost responsibility for large load 
customers.  
I. 
GOOD CAUSE EXISTS TO ACCEPT THESE SUPPLEMENTAL COMMENTS 
These supplemental comments and the attached Whitepaper released on March 30, 2026, 
offer new analysis developed since WIRES submitted its Initial Comments on November 21, 
2025, in this docket.5  As described more fully below, the Whitepaper evaluates the ANOPR’s 
proposal to allocate 100 percent of the network upgrade costs to large load customers and finds, 
under the scenarios analyzed and assumptions made, that directly assigning network upgrade 
costs to large load customers can lead to significant transmission cost shifts away from large load 
customers onto other retail customers.6 
Thus, these supplemental comments and the attached Whitepaper present new 
information that is neither repetitive nor duplicative of other information submitted in this 
proceeding.  This essential and timely information is intended to aid the Commission in any 
forthcoming rulemaking related to this docket.7  WIRES respectfully requests that the 
Commission accept these supplemental comments. 
 
5 Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Comments of WIRES, Docket No. RM26-4-
000 (Nov. 21, 2025) (“WIRES Comments”). 
6 Whitepaper at 1, 3, and 6. 
7 See, e.g., New York Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc. 179 FERC ¶ 61,198 at P 16 (June 17, 2022) (accepting motion to file 
comments out-of-time and comments because they provided information that assisted the Commission in its 
decision-making process); Algonquin Gas Transmission, LLC, 154 FERC ¶ 61,048 at P 2 n.6 (2016) (accepting 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
 
II. 
COMMENTS 
Rapid growth in large loads, especially data centers, has placed unprecedented demands 
on the transmission system at a time when customer affordability is a chief concern for many,8 
including WIRES and its members.  In response to these challenges, and under the direction of 
the Secretary of Energy,9 FERC has issued the ANOPR to propose potential reforms, including a 
series of principles for the Commission to build upon in initiating a rulemaking proceeding.  
Among those principles is a proposal that the cost of network upgrades needed to serve new 
large loads should be directly assigned to such large load customers.10  A similar principle is part 
of the White House’s Ratepayer Protection Pledge, incorporating the additional concept that 
costs of delivery infrastructure should not be passed on to other customers.11  This analysis, 
along with WIRES’ position, supports the goal of ensuring that large load customers contribute 
their share.  Through this Whitepaper, WIRES seeks to guide the Commission away from rate 
policies that could unintentionally deviate from this principle.   
Thus, the Whitepaper examines whether relying solely on the direct assignment 
allocation method is appropriate.  Specifically, it focuses on the potential financial impact to 
other customers resulting from this approach.  In performing the analysis, the Whitepaper uses a 
 
unauthorized pleading because it aided in the decision-making process); Dominion Cove Point LNG LP, 118 FERC 
¶ 61,007 at P 10 (2007) (accepting unauthorized pleading because it assisted in the decision-making process). 
8 See Presidential Proclamation 11014, Ratepayer Protection Pledge, (Mar. 4, 2026), 91 FR 11439 (Mar. 9, 2026) 
(stating because America’s economic and technological leadership depends on the development of  reliable, large-
scale data centers within the United States, the Administration, through this Proclamation, required guarantees from 
such companies that their energy needs will not increase electricity costs for American households).   
9 See supra n. 3. 
10 ANOPR at P 25 (see Principal Eight proposing that load and hybrid facilities should be responsible for 
100 percent of the network upgrades assigned to them through the interconnection studies). 
11 Ratepayer Protection Pledge at 11439 (“The hyperscalers and [artificial intelligence] companies that increase 
electricity demand must pay for the full cost of the energy and infrastructure needed to build and operate data 
centers and must not pass this cost on to the American people.”). 

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
 
representative example of a single 200 MW large load customer located in the PJM region taking 
service under PJM’s tariffed Network Integration Transmission Service (“NITS”) and compares 
it with two alternative approaches for the direct assignment and recovery of network upgrade 
costs (upfront payment or cost-of-service recovery structures).12   
The analysis was performed under a framework that assumes application of the 
Commission’s longstanding pricing policy, which prohibits simultaneously charging an 
interconnection customer both a rolled-in rate and an incremental rate (otherwise known as the 
prohibition against “and” pricing).13  Under the ANOPR’s proposed direct assignment recovery 
framework - and hypothesizing that the Commission’s “and” pricing prohibition applies - the 
analysis presumes that large load customers would be exempt from NITS charges that fund 
ongoing development, maintenance, and operation of the overall transmission system.14  The 
analysis is primarily based on conservative assumptions intended to avoid overinflating potential 
cost shifts15 and assumes that large loads do not receive any future refunds or credits for their 
payments of network upgrade costs.16 
The Whitepaper finds that the ANOPR’s proposed approach of solely assigning 
100 percent of network upgrade costs to large loads and exempting them from NITS charges 
could unintentionally shift costs to other customers.17  In fact, the analysis finds that such an 
 
12 Whitepaper at 5, Section 2 at 7-11, and Appendix 22-23. 
13 Id. at 1; see also, Inquiry Concerning the Commission’s Pricing Policy for Transmission Servs. Provided by Pub. 
Utils. Under the Fed. Power Act; Policy Statement, 59 FR 55031 (Nov. 3, 1994). 
14 Whitepaper at 5-6, and 7. 
15 Id. at 2, 7 n. 10, 10, 12, 13, 21, and Appendix at 21, 22 n. 22, and 23. 
16 Id. at 17. 
17 Id. at 1-3, 9-11, and 19.  It is noteworthy that the Whitepaper does not explore whether the Commission could 
modify its policy to assign costs to large load customers (e.g. through NITS charges to pay for ongoing system 
reliability) beyond the point in time when they have finished paying for their required network upgrades.  

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
 
approach could result in significant cost shifts away from large load customers onto other 
customers’ retail electricity bills, especially over the long term.18  For example, if the 
Commission were to implement in PJM a sole direct assignment policy for network upgrades 
associated with large loads interconnecting in the 2025-2030 period, the average PJM customer 
could experience an approximately 8-11 percent increase in the transmission portion of their 
retail electricity bill, or about $23-33 more per year in 2026 dollars.19  The Whitepaper further 
observes that these cost shifts would be much larger on a national level, particularly if large loads 
connect promptly and continue to use the grid as projected through and beyond 2030.20  Without 
drawing a conclusion, the Whitepaper suggests that policymakers should carefully review such a 
pricing policy if they wish to avoid these outcomes.21 
Although the Whitepaper acknowledges alternative cost allocation approaches, as well as 
the various rate-related risk management issues associated with large load development, it does 
not explore them.22  Instead, it shows that when large loads pay only for their required network 
upgrades and do not contribute to the embedded system costs or the future costs required to 
maintain system reliability for all customers, including themselves, those costs are shifted onto 
other customers.   
Neither the Whitepaper nor these comments advocate for any specific cost allocation 
methodology.  Rather, the purpose of this Whitepaper is to highlight the issue and provide the 
Commission with additional information to inform any direct assignment proposals in this docket 
 
18 Id. at 3, and 6. 
19 Id. at 2-3, 14 and 20; see also Table 3 at 15. 
20 Id., Appendix at 23. 
21 Id. at 3-4. 
22 Id. at 3, 6, and 19 n. 17. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
 
or related proceedings.  At a time when the Administration and other stakeholders, like the 
WIRES members, are highly focused on ensuring energy affordability for all American 
households and businesses, a thorough and objective evaluation of all relevant information is 
warranted.  In particular, special attention should be given to data that highlights potential 
unintended consequences that could flow from certain rate structures or cost allocation 
methodologies which may adversely impact customer affordability.  
III. 
CONCLUSION 
WIRES members remain committed to investing in and developing transmission 
infrastructure, maintaining system reliability, and safeguarding other retail customers from 
unwarranted expenses and risks.  As the Whitepaper introduces new information relevant to 
issues under consideration in the ANOPR, WIRES submits these supplemental comments to 
include the Whitepaper in the record for this proceeding.  Accordingly, a copy of the Whitepaper 
is attached for the Commission’s review and consideration. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/  Larry Gasteiger 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Larry Gasteiger 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Executive Director 
WIRES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
529 Fourteenth Street, NW 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Suite 1280 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Washington, D.C. 20045 
Ph:  (703) 980-5750 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
lgasteiger@exec.wiresgroup.com 
 
March 30, 2026 
 

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
 
 
I HEREBY CERTIFY that I have this day had served the foregoing document upon 
each person designated on the official service list compiled by the Secretary in this proceeding. 
 
Dated at Washington, D.C. this 30th day of March 2026. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/  Larry Gasteiger 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Larry Gasteiger 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Executive Director 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WIRES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
529 Fourteenth Street, NW, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Suite 1280 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Washington, D.C. 20045 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ph:  (703) 980-5750 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
lgasteiger@exec.wiresgroup.com 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 8 ---
WIRES Supplemental Comments 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 
WHITEPAPER  

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE RISKS OF COST SHIFTS IN SERVING LARGE 
LOADS UNDER A FRAMEWORK WITH DIRECT 
ALLOCATION OF TRANSMISSION COSTS 
 
 
PREPARED FOR: 
EXELON CORPORATION 
MARCH 30, 2026 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CEADVISORS.COM 
©2026 CONCENTRIC ENERGY ADVISORS, INC. All rights reserved. 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Executive Summary 
1 
Section 1: Background and Introduction 
4 
Section 2: Understanding Cost Shift Mechanics 
7 
Section 3: Analysis Results 
12 
Section 4: Co-Located Load Case and Additional Considerations 
17 
Section 5: Key Findings 
19 
Appendix: Analysis Methodology 
21 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
 
CONCENTRIC ENERGY ADVISORS |PG. 1 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Rapid growth in large loads—particularly data centers—is placing unprecedented demands on the 
U.S. electric system. This dynamic is unfolding at a time when affordability is at the forefront and 
there are concerns that the investment needed to serve these large loads will exacerbate financial 
strains on other customers. Policymakers are considering alternative approaches to timely and 
efficiently serving these loads, including framework principles presented in the Federal Enegry 
Regulatory Commission/Department of Energy (“FERC”/”DOE”) Advance Notice of Proposed 
Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) on interconnection of large loads. Among these principles is the suggestion 
that the cost of certain transmission projects needed to serve new large load customers – referred to 
as “network upgrades” – should be directly assigned to the large load customers.  
While there is a surface-level appeal to directly assigning the cost of network upgrades to large load 
customers, deeper examination is warranted.  FERC's transmission pricing policy allows the 
transmission owner to charge the higher of an incremental or “rolled-in” (a.k.a. “embedded” or 
“average”) rate. It also generally prohibits what is called “and” pricing, representing the notion that 
a customer may not be charged both the rolled-in and incremental rate.  A prohibition on “and” 
pricing might allow the same large load customers, having paid for their network upgrades, to argue 
that they should be exempt from the rates that fund the ongoing development, maintenance, and 
operation of the broader transmission system, called Network Integration Transmission Service 
(“NITS”) charges. This could result in cost shifts between large load customers and other customers. 
This report seeks first to explain the mechanics of the cost shift associated with direct assignment of 
network upgrades to large load customers when there is no other contribution to the costs of owning, 
operating and maintaining the transmission system. It then evaluates whether direct assignment of 
network upgrade costs as the means of paying for transmission service costs leads to a material shift 
of transmission costs from new large load customers to other customers, and the extent of that shift.  
Our core finding is that direct assignment of network upgrade costs, with accompanying excusal from 
paying NITS charges, results in significant transmission cost shifts away from the large load 
customers and onto other customers. This outcome holds under two direct assignment approaches 
studied: upfront payment structures (Scenario A) or cost‑of‑service recovery structures (Scenario 
B).  Table 1 shows that, over time, these cost shifts could amount to $33-47 billion in present value 
terms for just the volume of large loads expected to be developed in PJM from 2025-2030. 

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
 
CONCENTRIC ENERGY ADVISORS |PG. 2 
Table 1: Magnitude of Transmission Cost Shifts over a 30-Year Period (2026$) 
 
Scenario A 
Scenario B 
Cost Shift per MW Large Load 
$2.3 million  
$1.7 million  
Single 200 MW Large Load Customer 
$0.5 billion  
$0.3 billion 
PJM Large Loads (20 GW, 2025 -30) 
$47 billion 
$33 billion  
Nationwide Large Loads (73 GW, 2025-30) 
$169 billion  
$120 billion  
 
The intuition behind the cost shift in either scenario is that, if payments made by the large load 
customers were set based only on the costs of “but for” network upgrades, those payments would 
eventually fall below what they would contribute to system costs by paying NITS over time. The 
specific magnitude and timing of the cost shift depend on various assumptions, but, in nearly all cases, 
other customers are disadvantaged relative to a case in which new large load customers are treated 
like all other customers and charged for transmission service accordingly. This dynamic is illustrated 
in Figure 1, which compares the cases in which a large load customer pays NITS over time as 
compared to direct assignment of costs under Scenario B.  
Figure 1: Annotated Representation of Cumulative Transmission Payments Comparing NITS 
Payments and Direct Assignment of Network Upgrades Under Scenario B (2026$) 
 
Transmission cost shifts of this scale translate into very meaningful customer impacts, even when 
employing assumptions selected to lead to a more conservative result. For a typical PJM residential 
customer, the analysis indicates an increase of approximately 8–11% in the transmission portion of 

--- PAGE 13 ---
 
 
CONCENTRIC ENERGY ADVISORS |PG. 3 
the electric bill, equivalent to customers paying roughly an additional $23–$33 per year in 2026 
dollars. The magnitude of the cost shifts resulting from reliance on payment for “but for” upgrades 
as the means of recovering transmission service costs would be much greater when extrapolated 
nationwide, and/or when extrapolated to large load development expected beyond 2030.  
We conclude that policies that rely solely on direct assignment transmission network upgrades to 
large load customers, with accompanying excusal from paying NITS charges, are likely to shift 
significant costs onto other customers. Thus, defining transmission cost responsibility through direct 
assignment should be approached cautiously. 
It bears emphasizing that this report focuses only on the implications of transmission pricing policies 
that rely solely on direct assignment and does not explore the implications of other possible 
approaches.   
 
 

--- PAGE 14 ---
 
 
CONCENTRIC ENERGY ADVISORS |PG. 4 
SECTION 1: BACKGROUND AND INTRODUCTION 
The United States is facing a range of challenges associated with efforts to rapidly integrate significant 
volumes of new large load customers – especially data centers – into the electric grid. Implicated 
issues extend to transmission planning, generation resource adequacy, and reliable operations. 
Especially in light of acute affordability concerns, considerable attention is owed to the equitable 
allocation of the ensuing costs and the potential for cost shifts between new large load customers and 
all other customers, new and existing.  
The issue of transmission development cost assignment arises, among other places, in the ANOPR on 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System being advanced by the U.S. 
DOE’s and FERC.1 This docket seeks to address a range of issues associated with the rapid expansion 
of large load customers. Certain concepts discussed in the proposal represent a departure from long-
standing transmission rate design and cost allocation principles. Accordingly, the alternative 
approaches to network upgrade funding and transmission service rate treatment for large loads 
warrant careful examination to understand their potential impact on transmission customers and 
retail rates. For the purposes of this report, we use the term “network upgrades” to refer to 
transmission projects necessary to reliably serve new large loads. These network upgrades are 
integrated parts of the transmission system and include both local enhancements necessary to 
integrate the large load and regional development needed to maintain broader system reliability.  
FERC has generally viewed such assets as benefitting all users of the transmission system.2  
The ANOPR introduces rate design concepts that could materially shift transmission costs among 
customer types in response to new large load customers connecting to the electric grid on a 
standalone basis as well as when they connect in configurations co-located with generators. 
Specifically, the ANOPR advances the principle that such customers “should be responsible for 100% 
of the network upgrades that they are assigned.”3 This principle, paired with the Commission’s 
prohibition on “and” pricing would have the distinct potential to relieve such customers from paying 
for ongoing costs of reliance on the integrated network.4  Put another way, if large load customers 
are only responsible for network upgrades required for their reliable integration into the 
transmission system, they may then be relieved from paying for the cost of other transmission 
infrastructure, the use of which also benefits them.  If large load customers are not responsible for 
 
1  
FERC Docket No. RM26-4.  
2  
These may be distinguished from “interconnection facilities,” which are facilities found downstream of the point at 
which the customer connects to the integrated transmission system.  
3  
ANOPR Principle eight.  
4  
Direct assignment of network upgrade costs to load that also pays for transmission service could be interpreted as 
running afoul of the Commission’s “and” pricing policy precedent. Generally, this policy holds that it is discriminatory 
and duplicative to charge a customer for both its network upgrade costs (cost responsibility for specific assets that 
are part of the integrated transmission network) and a rolled-in transmission rate (reflecting the costs of the rest of 
the integrated system). The Commission’s policy has been that all customers use the integrated transmission system 
and all should contribute to the costs of developing, owning, operating, and maintaining that system.  

--- PAGE 15 ---
 
 
CONCENTRIC ENERGY ADVISORS |PG. 5 
paying ongoing transmission service charges, the fixed costs of the transmission system, including 
both capital costs (embedded and prospective) and ongoing operation and maintenance (“O&M”) 
expenses, would necessarily be recovered from other customers.5  
This report first illustrates the mechanics of this cost shift using a representative example of a single 
200 MW large load customer located in the PJM region taking service under standard NITS.6 This 
example is compared to two alternatives for the direct assignment and recovery of network upgrade 
costs: 
• 
Alternative Scenario A – Upfront Payment for Network Upgrades: 
Large loads pay the full upfront capital cost of any network upgrades identified in the 
interconnection study. This scenario is akin to a Contribution in Aid of Construction (“CIAC”) 
framework.7 Once connected, however, the large loads are not assessed NITS charges nor are 
they responsible for any further charges associated with owning or maintaining the network 
upgrade assets. 
• 
Alternative Scenario B – Cost-of-Service Network Upgrades: 
Large loads pay for utility‑funded network upgrades over time on a cost-of-service basis 
through a customer-specific formula rate for network upgrade charges. Such a formula rate 
would be designed to recover, from a large load customer, the costs of the asset over time 
(i.e., depreciation), plus a rate of return, the cost of maintaining the facilities, etc. This 
scenario is akin to the Network Upgrade Funding Agreement (“NUFA”) approach proposed 
by the PJM Transmission Owners for generator interconnection customers. As in Scenario A, 
once the large loads are connected, they are not assessed NITS charges. 
Having established these two alternatives, the report then analyzes and presents estimates of the 
potential magnitude of transmission cost shifts that would result from exempting large load 
 
5  
We note that this is distinct from other parts of the Commission’s transmission pricing policy, which allows the 
transmission owner to charge the higher of an incremental or embedded – or “rolled-in” – rate. Underlying the higher 
of policy was the notion that existing customers (e.g., native load and other customers) should be held harmless from 
new requests for service and the costs associated with providing that incremental service.     
6  
NITS service is one of two primary types of transmission service offered by transmission providers in the US. NITS service 
– as compared to point-to-point service – is comprehensive service that allows load serving entities to use the entire 
transmission network to deliver power to load that it serves. For our purposes, we recognize that transmission cost 
recovery from customers may, depending on the region, be done through NITS as well as other charge categories. 
Here, we use “NITS” as a catch-all to cover all charge categories for customers taking comprehensive transmission 
service. Excluding any such charges from cost allocations to large load customers would, absent other mechanisms, 
result in potential further cost shifts.  
7  
CIAC refers to money paid to a utility by a customer or project to directly cover the cost of utility infrastructure 
needed to serve that customer or project. CIACs are generally paid up front during the construction period to cover 
construction expenses. They are generally employed when the assets in questions do not benefit the broader electric 
system and are therefore not appropriately paid for by other ratepayers. By definition, network upgrades benefit the 
broader electric system. 

--- PAGE 16 ---
 
 
CONCENTRIC ENERGY ADVISORS |PG. 6 
customers from NITS charges at the PJM regional as well as the national levels. Finally, the report 
presents estimates of the resulting impacts of these cost shifts on residential electric bills. 
On the general topic of the cost implications of integration of large loads into the electric system, 
there are numerous issues and forms of risks to existing customers. These include cost allocation risk 
(i.e., cost shifts between customer classes and types), stranded asset risk (i.e., possibility that assets 
are developed for customers that do not materialize or demand less than expected), and risk with 
respect to the proper alignment of incentives related to site selection. Here, while acknowledging the 
importance of addressing stranded asset risk8 and other concerns, we focus solely on the cost 
allocation risk associated with a framework that would solely direct-assign the cost of network 
upgrades to large load customers. Our attention here is not on other pricing solutions or a fuller suite 
of solutions related to cost and risk allocation for large load customers.  
Ultimately, the analysis finds that, under the specific pricing approaches analyzed, a significant 
portion of costs may be shifted away from large load customers and borne by other customers.  
 
 
 
8  
There are, of course, approaches available to address stranded asset risk, which may be achieved through rate 
design or contract structures like the Transmission Security Agreement framework being employed by the Exelon 
Utilities. 
https://www.exeloncorp.com/grid/setting-a-national-standard--how-Exelon-is-protecting-customers-and-
powering-growth 

--- PAGE 17 ---
 
 
CONCENTRIC ENERGY ADVISORS |PG. 7 
SECTION 2: UNDERSTANDING COST SHIFT MECHANICS 
Under the status quo, network upgrade costs incurred to serve end-use customers are included in a 
transmission owner’s rate base and recovered from all transmission customers, including large load 
customers, through standard transmission service charges such as rates for NITS. NITS charges 
reflect the full costs of developing, owning, operating, and maintaining the transmission system and 
are generally assessed based on each customer’s contribution to system peak load. Supported by 
longstanding precedent, this approach of rolling the cost of upgrades into broader system costs, while 
charging all customers for the use of the full system, has ensured that customers pay a proportionate 
share of transmission costs consistent with their use of the transmission system and the facilities 
built to serve them. 
This report shows that a cost shift occurs under the two alternative scenarios – described above – in 
which the large loads are exempt from NITS charges and instead bear only the network upgrade costs 
assigned to them through an envisioned large load  study process. 9In either scenario, the cost shift – 
to the advantage of large load customers that are directly assigned costs – takes place when the total 
cumulative payment by the large load customer, regardless of how they are charged, eventually fall 
below what they would contribute to the cost of owning and operating the system by paying NITS 
over time. The specific magnitude and the timing of the cost shift depend on various assumptions, 
but in the scenarios studied, other customers are disadvantaged relative to a case where new large 
load customers are charged for their use of the transmission grid like all other customers.   
To illustrate how the cost shift occurs under these scenarios, we calculated the costs to a hypothetical 
200 MW large load customer under three scenarios with an in-service date of 2030. The full 
quantitative cost shift analysis is conducted over a 30‑year horizon; however, for ease of 
presentation, some of the charts in this section focuses on the 2027–2050 period.  
• 
Status Quo – Standard NITS Charges: Customer pays NITS charges based on its peak load, 
which here is set equal to its maximum demand of 200 MW. NITS charges are based on the 
PJM weighted-average NITS rate and are assumed to grow in perpetuity at the estimated 
growth rate for the 2025-2030 period.10  
• 
Scenario A - Upfront Payment for Network Upgrades: Customer pays upfront for 
necessary network upgrade facilities, assumed to be developed over a 4-year period before 
the in-service date and costs are spread evenly over the construction period for simplicity. 
 
9  
See, e.g., FERC ANOPR at PP 20-21.  
10  
We roughly estimate a NITS growth rate based on the 2025 PJM Transmission Owner revenue requirements plus the 
revenue requirement impact of transmission projects expected to enter service before 2030. For this value, we 
calculate an approximately 5% CAGR. This is conservative relative to the CAGR for PJM Transmission Owner NITS 
rates, which have experienced a weighted average CAGR of approximately 7% in the 2021-2026 period. With the 
structure of our analysis, the more the NITS rate is expected to increase, the higher the calculated cost shift.  

--- PAGE 18 ---
 
 
CONCENTRIC ENERGY ADVISORS |PG. 8 
The size of the network upgrade costs is assumed to be approximately $1.16 million per each 
MW of load, with the reasoning for this number described later in this report.  
• 
Scenario B - Cost of Service Network Upgrades: Customer pays directly for network 
upgrades over time, assuming a 20-year asset life and standard treatment of depreciation, 
taxes, and return for transmission assets (approximately aligned with the PJM NUFA 
structure). Annual O&M is assumed to be 1% annually of initial capital cost. The capital cost 
of the network upgrade costs is treated the same as in Scenario A.  
We compared the scenario where the customer pays status quo NITS to the alternative direct 
assignment Scenarios A and B. This is done on both an annual and cumulative basis. The methodology 
and numerical results are described in greater detail in the following section and the appendix. 
As shown in Figure 2, when the customer pays NITS, its contribution to the overall transmission 
revenue requirement is generally consistent across time and rises with the expected increase in the 
NITS charge less present-value adjustments. In the upfront charge case, the customer pays for a 
quarter of the cost of the network upgrades during each of the four years of the construction period 
and then pays nothing thereafter. In the cost-of-service case, the customer will make payments 
aligned with the formula to calculate the revenue requirement for the network upgrades. As the asset 
depreciates and is eventually fully amortized, the associated payment amounts would decline over 
time and then cease entirely. At that point, the customer would not pay any additional charge for use 
of the system (e.g., NITS) nor would it incur any meaningful transmission service charges related to 
the network upgrade assets.  
Figure 2: Annual Charges for Hypothetical Customer for Three Scenarios (2027-2059) 
 
 $-
 $10
 $20
 $30
 $40
 $50
 $60
Millions ($2026)
Upfront Upgrade Charge
Cost of Service Upgrade Charge
NITS Charge

--- PAGE 19 ---
 
 
CONCENTRIC ENERGY ADVISORS |PG. 9 
With the understanding of how these various payment scenarios evolve across time, Figure 3 
illustrates how the cost shift evolves over time between existing and large load customers depending 
on the rate structure applicable to the large load customers. The figure depicts the cumulative 
financial contributions to the transmission system over time for each scenario. In the NITS case, 
cumulative payments for the transmission system accumulate steadily across time without 
abatement. For the upfront payment case, contributions accumulate in each of the construction years 
and then plateau as no further transmission charges are levied. For the cost-of-service case, the 
cumulative network upgrade charge contribution increases with each annual payment and plateaus 
after year 20 when the network upgrades are fully amortized. 
Figure 3: Cumulative Cost Contributions for Hypothetical Customer for Three Scenarios 
(2027-2050) 
 
The cost shift can be conceptualized as the difference in cumulative payments to the transmission 
system, as all costs ultimately need to be recovered by transmission owners from customers. While 
in early years large load customers under the direct assignment scenarios studied here have 
contributed relatively more, over time and in each case the total contribution to the system falls 
below what they would have paid if treated as a regular customer paying the equivalent of NITS 
charges, assuming that the large loads remain a customer over the expected life of the assets. In the 
upfront charge case, by approximately year seven of operation the large load customer will have paid 
less than it would otherwise have as a NITS customer.  Over time the cost shift onto other customers 
will grow. For the cost-of-service upgrade charge case, by approximately year fifteen of operation the 
large load customer will have paid less than the customer would otherwise have as a NITS customer, 
with the gap widening over time from there.  
 $-
 $50
 $100
 $150
 $200
 $250
 $300
 $350
 $400
 $450
 $500
2027
2032
2037
2042
2047
Millions ($2026)
NITS Charge
Upfront Upgrade Charge
Cost of Service Upgrade Charge

--- PAGE 20 ---
 
 
CONCENTRIC ENERGY ADVISORS |PG. 10 
In both scenarios, the large load customer’s contribution to network upgrade costs as described 
above, whether paid upfront or over time, does not fully offset the share of transmission system costs 
that the customer would otherwise pay under the status quo. As a result, absent other pricing 
structures, a portion of these transmission costs must be recovered from other transmission 
customers, resulting in a cost shift. 
It is noteworthy that this example is intentionally conservative as it assumes a relatively high level 
of network upgrade capital costs per MW of large load demand. This conservative example has two 
advantages: it produces graphics that clearly illustrate the cost shift dynamics, and it mitigates 
concerns that the results are driven by aggressive or overstated assumptions. Importantly, higher 
assumed network upgrade costs reduce the magnitude of the calculated cost shift, making this 
example a lower-bound illustration rather than a worse-case outcome.  
To demonstrate how these dynamics change under less conservative assumptions, Figure 4 and 5 
present results for a case in which network upgrade charges are reduced by half, to approximately 
$575K per MW. As shown in Figure 4, under this assumption, customer payment in Scenario B (Cost 
of Service Upgrade Charge) are lower in every in-service year than the contribution the customer 
would make to system costs if charged solely under NITS.  Figure 5 further illustrates cost shifts not 
only become more pronounced over time but also begin significantly earlier. Specifically, in this 
example, costs are shifted towards other customers by approximately 2035 under Scenario A 
(Upfront Upgrade Charge), and almost immediately upon the commencement of service under 
Scenario B (Cost of Service Upgrade Charge).  
Figure 4: Annual Charges for Hypothetical Customer for Three Scenarios with Lower Level of 
Network Upgrade Costs (2027-2059) 
 
 $-
 $5
 $10
 $15
 $20
 $25
 $30
 $35
Millions ($2026)
Upfront Upgrade Charge
Cost of Service Upgrade Charge
NITS Charge

--- PAGE 21 ---
 
 
CONCENTRIC ENERGY ADVISORS |PG. 11 
Figure 5: Cumulative Cost Contributions for Hypothetical Customer for Three Scenarios with 
Lower Level of Network Upgrade Costs (2027-2050) 
 
As illustrated in the graphics, in either case – high or low network upgrade costs, over the long run, 
the direct assignment of network upgrade costs eventually leads large load cost responsibility to fall 
below what they would otherwise contribute to the transmission system if they were charged NITS 
like all other customers and take service over the same expected term as other customers. The lower 
the network upgrade costs paid by a large load customer, the earlier the cost shift occurs and the 
greater the magnitude of that cost shift over time. This approach creates a problematic cost shift from 
an equity and policy standpoint. Furthermore, such rate treatment ignores the reality that the 
transmission system is an evolving investment. As customers take service from the integrated grid, 
the system requires ongoing maintenance to ensure reliability, resilience, and quality of service, all 
of which incur continuous costs. Allowing a cost allocation framework where the contribution only 
to a certain portion of the system, and only for a certain period of time, can absolve large load 
customers from the financial contributions associated with the on-going use of the system and leave 
other customers to bear an outsize burden over time. 
 
 $-
 $50
 $100
 $150
 $200
 $250
 $300
 $350
 $400
 $450
 $500
2027
2032
2037
2042
2047
Millions ($2026)
NITS Charge
Upfront Upgrade Charge
Cost of Service Upgrade Charge

--- PAGE 22 ---
 
 
CONCENTRIC ENERGY ADVISORS |PG. 12 
SECTION 3: ANALYSIS RESULTS 
The analysis forecasts future NITS payments and payments under alternative transmission cost 
responsibility frameworks for a hypothetical large load customer. The analysis then compares 
payments between the status quo cost responsibility structure and the direct-assign cost 
responsibility structure to quantify the resulting cost shifts over a 30-year period. This result is then 
scaled up to the PJM region and nationally to the projected levels of large load development. 
Importantly, as discussed in the Appendix, we make conservative assumptions where appropriate to 
avoid overstatement of cost shifts, by assuming network upgrade costs of $1.16 million per MW of 
large load customer interconnection. The details of the cost shift calculation methodology and the 
input assumptions are discussed more fully in the Appendix. 
The cost shift analysis is limited to the expected large load customer development over the 2025-
2030 period and evaluates the resulting cost shift attributable to that vintage of customers over the 
2030-2059 study period. Future data center development is not quantified in this analysis; any 
associated cost shifts would be incremental to those reported here. However, the analysis does 
present cost shifts on a dollar-per-MW basis, which may be used to extrapolate potential cost shifts 
associated with future large load development.  Furthermore, for illustrative purposes, the analysis 
assumes that the direct-assign rate structures under consideration in certain policy initiatives are 
implemented beginning in 2026 and remain in effect thereafter. 
Cost Shift Magnitude 
Our analysis finds that the magnitude of the transmission cost shift associated with a representative 
200 MW large load customer is approximately $1.1 billion over a 30-year period under Scenario A, 
and approximately $0.8 billion under Scenario B, all in nominal terms.  On a per‑MW basis, each 
incremental large load addition results in an estimated cost shift of $5.4 million under Scenario A and 
$4.1 million under Scenario B over the 30‑year study period.  
The lower cost shift magnitude observed under Scenario B reflects the fact that large load customers 
in this scenario pay the full cost‑of‑service for network upgrades over time, including ongoing O&M 
and other related expenses. By contrast, under Scenario A, customers pay only the capital‑related 
costs of the network upgrades, resulting in a larger portion of remaining costs being shifted to other 
customers. 
We apply these per‑MW cost shift estimates to: (1) the projected 20 GW of PJM large load additions 
over the 2025–2030 period and (2) an aggregate 73 GW of nationwide large load additions, as 

--- PAGE 23 ---
 
 
CONCENTRIC ENERGY ADVISORS |PG. 13 
forecasted by S&P Global,11 over the same period. This scaling yields the aggregate cost shift results 
presented in Table 2. 
Table 2: Magnitude of Transmission Cost Shifts over a 30-Year Period 
 
Scenario A 
Scenario B 
Cost Shift per MW Large Load 
$5.4 million (nominal) 
$2.3 million (2026$) 
$4.1 million (nominal) 
$1.7 million (2026$) 
Single 200 MW Customer 
$1.1 billion (nominal) 
$0.5 billion (2026$) 
$0.8 billion (nominal) 
$0.3 billion (2026$) 
PJM Large Loads  
(20 GW, 2025-30) 
$109 billion (nominal) 
$47 billion (2026$) 
$82 billion (nominal) 
$33 billion (2026$) 
Nationwide Large Loads 
(73 GW, 2025-30) 
$395 billion (nominal) 
$169 billion (2026$) 
$297 billion (nominal) 
$120 billion (2026$) 
 
For the single customer case, the cumulative cash flows are shown graphically in Figure 6 for the full 
study period of 2030-2059. This reflects the network upgrade construction period (4 years) for 
transmission prior to the large load in-service date of 2030. When the customer is charged NITS rates 
(red line), it steadily contributes to the cost of the transmission system over time after it enters 
service. In Scenario A (gold line), the large load customer only pays for the network upgrades during 
construction, and then its cumulative contribution to transmission halts, reflected in a flat line after 
in-service. By approximately 2040, this contribution falls below what it would have contributed had 
it been responsible for NITS charges. In Scenario B (blue line), the customer begins to pay for its 
network upgrades through the cost-of-service rate in 2030 when it takes service, and thereafter the 
amount it contributes annually declines as the network upgrades are depreciated across time. 
Eventually, payments drop to (or near) zero as the assets are fully amortized. By approximately 2045, 
this contribution falls below what it would have contributed had it been responsible for NITS charges. 
The total cost shift over the 30-year study period is the distance between cumulative cost 
contribution lines at the end of the period. Again, we emphasize that our primary analysis case likely 
understates cost shifts by the selection of a network upgrade cost assumption ($1.16 million per MW 
of load) that is likely on the high end of what may be expected. 
 
11  
According to S&P Global, large load demand nationwide was approximately 61.8 GW in 2025 and is forecast to 
increase to 134.4 GW by 2030. This represents a nationwide large load addition of 72.6 GW over the 2025–2030 period. 
 
(Source: S&P Global, https://www.spglobal.com/energy/en/news-research/latest-news/electric-power/101425-
data-center-grid-power-demand-to-rise-22-in-2025-nearly-triple-by-2030) 

--- PAGE 24 ---
 
 
CONCENTRIC ENERGY ADVISORS |PG. 14 
Figure 6: Cumulative Cost Contributions for Hypothetical Customer for Three Scenarios 
Across Full Study Period (2027-2059) 
 
Bill Impact 
Our analysis also estimates the cost shift impact on an average PJM residential customer’s monthly 
electricity bill. We assume an average residential bill of $200 per month in 2026, with transmission 
charges accounting for approximately 12% of the total bill. 
We convert the 30‑year transmission cost shift associated with PJM’s projected 20GW large load 
additions into net present value (NPV) 2026 dollars and allocate the residential portion of this 
amount across the residential customer base. Based on this approach, as shown in Table 3, the 
estimated bill impact for a typical residential customer is approximately $2.73 per month or $33 per 
year (an 11% increase in the transmission portion of the bill) under Scenario A. The estimated bill 
impact for a typical residential customer is approximately $1.94 per month or $23 per year (an 8% 
increase in the transmission portion of the bill) under Scenario B. 
 $-
 $100
 $200
 $300
 $400
 $500
 $600
 $700
 $800
Millions ($2026)
NITS Charge
Upfront Upgrade Charge
Cost of Service Upgrade Charge

--- PAGE 25 ---
 
 
CONCENTRIC ENERGY ADVISORS |PG. 15 
Table 3: Estimated Annual Bill Impact on an Average Residential Customer from PJM Large 
Load Cost Shifts for Loads Developed 2025-2030 
 
Scenario A 
Scenario B 
Annual Customer Bill Impact from PJM 
Large Load Cost Shifts (2026 $) 
$33 
$23 
Residential Transmission Bill Impact (%) 
11% 
8% 
Network Upgrade Costs Sensitivity 
Network upgrade costs vary significantly by project and region, reflecting differences in location, 
interconnection voltage, the status of other service requests, and the resulting extent of required 
network reinforcements. For purposes of the cost shift analysis, we assume a large load’s network 
upgrade cost contribution of approximately $1.16 million per MW,12 based on calculations derived 
from PJM large load growth projections and the estimated costs of planned transmission projects to 
reliably serve that load growth, as described in the Appendix.  
To illustrate sensitivity to this assumption, and to analyze the impacts of less conservative inputs, we 
also estimate cost shifts under cases in which network upgrade cost contributions are materially 
lower.13 Specifically we perform one case that is half of the reference case, or approximately $578,000 
per MW, and another case that is aligned with recent costs of new generator interconnection network 
upgrades, or  approximately $220,000 per MW.14 Under these scenarios, the cost shift per MW of 
large load addition increases substantially, as large load customers are responsible for a smaller 
amount of transmission system costs (i.e., their network upgrade costs) and a greater portion of costs 
they otherwise would be responsible for – were they responsible for full NITS charges –are socialized 
to the broader customer base. As large load network upgrade cost contributions decline, per‑MW 
cost shifts increase, reinforcing the idea that the base assumption of $1.16 million per MW likely 
understates the magnitude of cost shifts that may arise in many future interconnection scenarios. 
 
12  
The estimated network upgrade cost of $1.16 million per MW is derived by dividing approximately $23.3 billion of 
network upgrades identified on the PJM website as supporting large load interconnections by an estimated 20 GW 
of projected large load additions from 2025 to 2030. 
13     Network upgrade costs for large load interconnections are generally not publicly available. As a point of reference, 
a 2024 report indicates that the average estimated network upgrade cost for generation interconnection projects 
submitted between 2012 and 2020 was approximately $184,500 per MW. (Source: AEI 2024 Generator 
Interconnection Scorecard) 
14  
https://gridstrategiesllc.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/03/AEI-2024-Generation-Interconnection-Scorecard.pdf 
(Table 5, page 33)  

--- PAGE 26 ---
 
 
CONCENTRIC ENERGY ADVISORS |PG. 16 
Table 4: Per MW Cost Shift Comparison for High, Medium, and Low Network Upgrade Cost 
Contributions 
Network Upgrade Costs 
Scenario A 
Per-MW Cost Shift 
Scenario B 
Per MW Cost Shift 
High: $1.16 million/MW 
$5.4 million (nominal) 
$4.1 million (nominal) 
Medium: $578,000/MW 
$6.0 million (nominal) 
$5.3 million (nominal) 
Low: $220,000/MW 
$6.4 million (nominal) 
$6.1 million (nominal) 
 
 

--- PAGE 27 ---
 
 
CONCENTRIC ENERGY ADVISORS |PG. 17 
SECTION 4: CO-LOCATED LOAD CASE AND ADDITIONAL 
CONSIDERATIONS 
Co-located Large Loads 
Although not separately called out in the analysis, cost responsibilities for co-located load 
arrangements bear similarities to the scenarios discussed above, with similar cost shift concerns. 
Given the direction that FERC appears to be heading regarding co-located load rates,15 a large load 
customer in a co-location arrangement (1) may not be responsible for the allocation of transmission 
charges owing to arguments that, after paying for network upgrades to facilitate the co-location 
arrangement, such charges would violate the Commission’s prohibition on “and” pricing and (2) may 
not be responsible for NITS charges regardless of network upgrade cost responsibility due to the 
netting of  generation from load.  Under such conditions, consistent with the load cost responsibility 
issues modeled in this report, the customer’s only contribution toward embedded transmission 
system costs would be through the payment of any required network upgrade costs. As a result, we 
would expect the cost shifts to be similar in magnitude to those modeled for standalone loads.  
Some stakeholders have suggested that a co-located load configurations may reduce the need for 
network upgrades associated with interconnection and, all else being equal, lower the cost of 
expanding the transmission system to reliably serve load.  This outcome may occur under certain 
system conditions. However, the details about how the co-located load arrangements would be 
studied, would operate, and would impose demand on the system, remain under active discussion 
among stakeholders.  Given the evolving discussion, we cannot conclude that co-located load 
configuration results in lower network upgrades requirements.  Co-located load cost shift effects are 
examined in more detail in the Concentric analysis submitted to FERC in the co-located load 
dockets.16   
Crediting Mechanism 
In estimating large load contributions to network upgrade costs, the analysis assumes that large 
loads pay the full network upgrade costs and do not receive any refunds of, or credit for, those 
payments in the future regardless of the rate design. The ANOPR raises the question of whether large 
loads should initially fund network upgrades and subsequently receive reimbursement. However, 
establishing a crediting mechanism for large load customers would effectively reimburse them for 
any network upgrade costs that they were responsible for. Once they have been fully reimbursed, 
 
15  
See FERC Docket Number EL25-49. 
16 
See, e.g., Reed/Powers Declaration, submitted as attachment to Protest of Exelon Corporation and American 
Electric Power Service Corporation in Docket No. ER24-2172. 
 
 

--- PAGE 28 ---
 
 
CONCENTRIC ENERGY ADVISORS |PG. 18 
they would presumably then be responsible for NITS obligations like any other customers. 
Practically, at least in nominal terms, this setup would probably be designed to leave the customer 
financially no worse off than if it has paid NITS all along. As such, this would likely eliminate any cost 
shift, but it would also not achieve any intended policy-driven objective of directly assigning network 
costs to the large load customers in a durable way to prevent cost shifts to other customers. Such an 
approach could amount to a logistically intensive pathway back to something approximating the 
status quo.  Accordingly, while we offer this observation about such a policy, we did not perform any 
additional modeling of such a case.  
Discount Rate 
Given the long time series of cash flows underlying the cost shift analysis and the efforts to evaluate 
impacts over a 30-year horizon, the choice of discount rate can materially affect the conversion of 
future cash flows to present-value terms.  For this analysis, the discount rate is set equal to the 
historical average rate of inflation (i.e., 3.22%) in order to avoid unduly constraining the treatment 
of intergenerational equity.  Importantly, the overall conclusions and directional findings regarding 
cost shifts under direct-assignment approaches remain unchanged even when discount rates are 
increased to 10% or higher.  
NITS Rate Changes  
To avoid introducing additional variability unrelated to the core comparison of cost responsibility, 
the NITS rate is assumed to grow at a fixed rate across all modeled scenarios. In practice, the NITS 
growth rate may be affected by a wide range of factors. For example, the interconnection of a large 
quantity of large loads could, if they significantly grow the pool of payers for the transmission 
network, put downward pressure on transmission rates by effectively “increasing the denominator.”  
Alternatively, under certain direct assignment structure, certain network upgrades could be netted 
or credited against the revenue requirement, thereby “reducing the numerator.” These dynamics are 
more complex and inherently uncertain to model and were therefore excluded from the analysis for 
simplicity.  Instead, the analysis assumes that historical trends of rising NITS rates continue, at least 
approximately. Importantly, we tested the sensitivity of the results to this assumption. Even when 
the NITS growth rate is reduced to 0%, the cost shift results hold directionally, although the 
magnitude of the cost shift naturally declines as the NITS growth rate declines.  

--- PAGE 29 ---
 
 
 
CONCENTRIC ENERGY ADVISORS |PG. 19 
SECTION 5: KEY FINDINGS 
Our analysis of a transmission cost allocation policy requiring sole use of direct assignment yields 
the following key findings: 
1. When direct assigned to large load customers, network upgrade cost contributions do not 
offset avoided NITS charges. 
When large loads are exempted from paying NITS charges and are responsible only for 
network upgrade costs, their contributions to transmission system cost recovery are, over 
time, insufficient to replace the NITS payments they would otherwise make if treated like all 
other customers.17 This conclusion holds whether the large loads pay network upgrade costs 
upfront or are charged on a cost-of-service basis.  
2. A policy that requires direct assignment of network upgrades to large loads as the sole means 
of recovering transmission costs creates substantial long‑term transmission cost shifts. 
We estimate that, on a per‑MW basis, each incremental large load addition subject to direct 
assignment results in a transmission cost shift of approximately $4.1 million to $5.4 million 
over a 30‑year period in nominal dollars, and approximately $1.7 million to $2.3 million in 
2026 dollars. Applying this result: 
a. A single 200 MW large load would shift approximately $1.1 billion in nominal dollars 
($0.5 billion in 2026 dollars) in transmission costs to other customers over a 30-year 
period when network upgrade costs are paid upfront. When network upgrades are 
recovered through cost-of-service charges, the same load would shift approximately 
$0.8 billion in nominal dollars ($0.3 billion in 2026 dollars) in transmission costs to 
other customers over the same period. 
b. Near‑term large load growth projected in PJM is approximately 20 GW. If this 
incremental load is exempt from NITS charges and instead pays only network 
upgrade costs, our analysis indicates that roughly $109 billion in nominal dollars ($47 
billion in 2026 dollars) in transmission costs would be shifted to other customers 
over the next 30 years when network upgrade costs are paid upfront. When network 
upgrades are recovered through cost-of-service charges, the same load would shift 
 
17  
As noted earlier, this report is limited to assessing the potential for cost shifts under a requirement to solely use direct 
assignment.   

--- PAGE 30 ---
 
 
CONCENTRIC ENERGY ADVISORS |PG. 20 
approximately $82 billion in nominal dollars ($33 billion in 2026 dollars) in 
transmission costs to other customers over the same period. 
c. At the national level, one estimate puts near-term large load additions at 
approximately 73 GW. Scaling the analysis accordingly suggests a potential 
transmission cost shift of roughly $395 billion in nominal dollars ($169 billion in 
2026 dollars) to other transmission customers over a 30‑year period when network 
upgrade costs are paid upfront. When network upgrades are recovered through cost-
of-service charges, the same load would shift approximately $297 billion in nominal 
dollars ($120 billion in 2026 dollars) in transmission costs to other customers over 
the same period. 
d. The magnitude of total transmission cost shifts to other customers would increase as 
the assumptions and results of this analysis are extended to large load additions 
occurring beyond 2030 
3. Residential customers experience meaningful bill impacts. 
These near‑term transmission cost shifts translate into an increase of approximately 8 to 
11% in the transmission portion of the average residential customer’s electricity bill, 
representing a non‑trivial customer impact. 
4. Cost shift magnitude is sensitive to network upgrade cost levels. 
Network upgrade costs vary significantly by project. Sensitivity analysis demonstrates that, 
transmission cost shifts increase materially as per MW large load network upgrade cost 
contributions decline, underscoring the importance of cost allocation frameworks that reflect 
long‑term system use. 

--- PAGE 31 ---
 
 
 
CONCENTRIC ENERGY ADVISORS |PG. 21 
APPENDIX: ANALYSIS METHODOLOGY  
Modeling Approach 
Our analysis evaluates potential cost shifts that stem from transmission network upgrade cost 
recovery frameworks that exempt large loads from paying NITS charges that they currently pay 
under the status quo transmission cost recovery framework. In these scenarios, policies change to 
require large load customers to instead pay for transmission costs under the two direct assignment 
scenarios described. As a result, the respective cost recovery frameworks lead to shifts in the amount 
of the transmission costs currently borne by large loads to other transmission customers. The 
analysis is designed to quantify these costs at the level of a single customer first, then scaled to the 
PJM region as a whole, and then extrapolated to nationwide levels of expected large load (i.e., data 
center) development. Cost shifts are defined as the difference between each direct-assign scenario as 
compared to the status quo case.  
Our cost shift modeling followed four steps: 
1. Forecast “Status Quo” PJM NITS Rates for the 30-Year Study Period 
Our 30‑year study period begins in 2030. We first estimated the 2030 NITS rate in PJM using 
(1) the 2026 PJM load forecast18 and (2) expected transmission capital additions expected in 
service by 2030, based on publicly available PJM planning process documents.19 
Using the projected 2030 NITS rate and the actual 2025 NITS rate, we calculated an average 
annual growth rate over the 2025–2030 period. This annual growth rate of 5% is then applied 
as an escalation factor to estimate future NITS rates for the years 2031 through 2059, based 
on the rough assumption that current trends are likely to persist prospectively. 
It is worth noting that this growth rate is conservative relative to historical NITS rate growth. 
For example, in the 2021-2026 period, weighted average NITS rates in PJM grew 
approximately 6.6% annually.20  
2. Calculate A Single Large Load Customer’s Contribution Under the Status Quo 
Under the status quo, the contribution of a single large load customer to the recovery of 
transmission costs is its payments for NITS. These payments are calculated as the large load’s 
contribution to system peak load as measured in megawatts multiplied by the dollar-per-MW 
NITS rate. 
 
 
18  
https://www.pjm.com/planning/resource-adequacy-planning/load-forecast-dev-process.aspx 
19  
https://www.pjm.com/planning/m/project-construction 
20  
https://www.pjm.com/markets-and-operations/billing-settlements-and-credit 

--- PAGE 32 ---
 
 
CONCENTRIC ENERGY ADVISORS |APPENDIX PG. 22 
 
3. Estimate A Single Large Load Customer’s Contribution Under Two Scenarios 
For each scenario, we assume that a large load’s contribution to transmission cost is equal to 
the payments it makes for the network upgrades required to serve that load consistent with 
the rate structure of that scenario. We derive a network upgrade cost on a per‑MW basis using 
PJM data, which is done by assessing the amount of transmission investment planned to serve 
new large loads in the 2026-2030 period21 divided by the amount of new large load over the 
same period.22 We then multiply this unit cost by the large load’s MW to determine the 
network upgrade costs for which a customer would be responsible.  
Under Scenario A, network upgrade costs are paid upfront. Accordingly, the full network 
upgrade cost payment associated with the large load is assumed to occur ahead of a 2030 in-
service date, the first year of the study period, with a four-year construction period and the 
assumption of equal payments during the construction period. 
Under Scenario B, network upgrade costs are recovered over time. We calculate the annual 
revenue requirement associated with the transmission upgrades supporting the large load 
and treat this amount as the large load’s annual transmission contribution for a 20‑year 
contract term. We assume annual O&M equal to 1% of the initial capital costs of the project 
and an 8% weighted average cost of capital. Payments cease after year 20, reflecting the 
typical term of network upgrade cost recovery agreements. 
4. Measure the Cost Shift for a Single Large Load Customer 
Finally, we compared the amount paid by the single large load customer towards the recovery 
of transmission costs in each scenario against the corresponding amount paid by the large 
load under the status quo rate framework. The difference over time between what the large 
load would contribute under the status quo and what it contributes under each scenario 
represents the cost shift. This is calculated on both nominal terms and in 2026 time- adjusted 
dollars (i.e., real 2026 dollars) using historical average inflation rates as the discount rate.  
5. Estimate Cost Shift in PJM and Nationwide 
Based on the 30-year cost shift estimated for a representative 200 MW large load customer, 
we calculated a per MW cost-shift metric. This per MW value was then applied to projected 
large load additions in PJM—approximately 20 GW from 2025 through 2030—to extrapolate 
 
21  
We rely on the PJM database of “Project Status & Cost Allocation” and sum all costs for projects estimated in service 
by 2030 under the categories of Baseline with load growth as a driver and Supplemental under the customer service 
driver.  
22  
We start with the 2026 PJM load forecast, look at all peak load growth expected by 2030, and conservatively assume 
that 90% of that load growth is a result of new large load customers.  

--- PAGE 33 ---
 
 
CONCENTRIC ENERGY ADVISORS |APPENDIX PG. 23 
 
the potential magnitude of cost shifts associated with near-term large load growth in the 
region. 
Using the same per MW extrapolation approach, we also estimated the magnitude of cost 
shifts associated with projected nationwide large load growth of approximately 73 GW over 
the 2025–2030 period. 
Conservative Modeling Assumptions 
The analysis adopts a deliberately conservative approach in selecting inputs for the cost shift 
calculation. The objective is to avoid overstating the magnitude of any potential cost shift and to 
ensure that resulting estimates err on the side of understatement rather than overstatement. 
First, in forecasting the status quo NITS rate, the analysis relies on the estimated costs of announced 
transmission projects published on the PJM website. It is expected, however, that additional 
Supplemental Projects will be added towards the latter end of the 2026-2030 period as needs dictate 
for projects with faster execution periods. Using only currently published project costs therefore 
results in a lower projected NITS growth rate and, in turn, a lower estimate of cost shifts than would 
likely occur in practice. 
Second, in projecting the NITS rate used in the model, the analysis applies the NITS growth rate from 
2025 through 2030 as a constant escalation factor over the subsequent 30‑year analysis period. This 
assumption is likely also conservative. Future NITS rate growth could reasonably be expected to 
exceed historical trends due to accelerating load growth, particularly from AI‑driven data center 
development and associated transmission expansion needs, as well as resulting from trends in 
increasing equipment costs. 
Finally, the large load forecast underlying the analysis includes only near‑term large load additions 
projected between 2025 and 2030 - approximately 20 GW within PJM and 73 GW nationwide. Over 
a 30‑year time horizon, it is a near certainty that substantially greater levels of large load additions 
will materialize. To the extent such future loads are exempted from paying NITS charges, excluding 
them from the cost shift analysis purposefully excludes any cost shifts resulting from post-2030 large 
load development and associated transmission costs.  Thus, the full long-term implications of any 
policy that would drive a cost shift would need to be extrapolated to future load growth levels to get 
a more complete picture of the impact on existing customers over time.  
 
