--- PAGE 1 ---
1 Tesla Road, Austin TX 78725  
https://tesla.com 
  
November 21, 2025 
 
1 
 
Ms. Debbie-Anne A. Reese 
Secretary 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
888 First Street NE 
Washington, D.C. 20426 
 
PUBLIC COMMENTS 
 
Submitted electronically via https://www.ferc.gov 
 
Re: Comments from Tesla on the Proposed Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking 
(Docket No. RM26-4-000) 
 
Tesla, Inc. (“Tesla”) appreciates the opportunity to respond to the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission's (“the Commission”) Notice Inviting Comments on the proposed advance notice of 
proposed rulemaking (“proposed ANOPR”) concerning the interconnection of large loads to the 
interstate transmission system.1 We welcome a robust and thorough process to gather 
information from stakeholders to ensure any final rule, and its implementation, considers all 
affected parties. 
 
Tesla recognizes the significant value of the principles of reform and offers the following 
comments and case study to inform the Commission’s rulemaking process. These comments 
also highlight additional considerations where large loads and energy demand are concerned, 
including the role of distributed energy resources (DERs) and virtual power plants (VPPs).  
 
Principles for Reform  
 
While Tesla does not comment on each principle identified in the ANOPR, we agree with the 
overall intent of the Commission’s proposed framework and offer the following considerations:  
 
The fourth principle suggests load and hybrid facilities should be subject to study deposits, 
readiness requirements, and withdrawal penalties. Tesla is generally supportive of concepts that 
limit duplicative load interconnection requests; however, we believe that requirements should be 
instituted for large loads presumed to be data centers or crypto mining centers. Given load 
 
1 Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Notice Inviting Comments, Docket No. RM26-4-
000 (October 27, 2025). 

--- PAGE 2 ---
1 Tesla Road, Austin TX 78725  
https://tesla.com 
  
November 21, 2025 
 
2 
 
requests have not been subjected to such mechanisms, a system should be established to 
provide credit back for study deposits, but perhaps through transmission credits.  
 
Tesla strongly endorses the fifth principle, which notes that hybrid facilities should be studied 
based on the amount of injection and/or withdrawal rights requested to incentivize colocation and 
efficiency buildout. We interpret this reform as similar to the eleventh principle, involving utility 
serving large loads and hybrid facilities being responsible for transmission service based on 
withdrawal rights. We suggest that any additional load or battery energy storage systems (BESS) 
installed behind-the-meter (BTM) at large load facilities count towards the point of 
interconnection (POI) limit. Facilities should be responsible for ensuring that total demand 
remains below the contracted capacity, consistent with withdrawal right procedures. These 
principles are relevant to the Tesla Gigafactory Case study highlighted below.   
 
The tenth principle raises that an existing generating facility seeking partial suspension to serve 
new load at the same location must undergo a system support resource (SSR)/reliability must run 
(RMR) type of study. Tesla believes that capacity additions behind the same POI that offset 
generation “loss” to serve load should be permitted with expedited reviews, assuming the system 
maintains consistent or similar POI import/export limitations. For example, when installing a data 
center co-located with an existing generator, we see potential to install fast-to-deploy energy 
storage to offset the system capacity loss or effective load carrying capability (ELCC).  
 
The fourteenth principle suggests utilities serving large loads should meet all applicable NERC 
reliability standards and Open Access Transmission Tariff (OATT) provisions. It emphasizes the 
need to update procedures, agreements, and standards to ensure the reliability of the Bulk 
Electric System (BES). Tesla recommends establishing minimum interconnection standards for 
large loads, including ramp rate, load stability, and voltage ride-through rate as standardized with 
the process. These should be applied at the POI and with a technology-neutral lens. Similar 
performance expectations are being applied or developed in regions (e.g. SPP and ERCOT) and 
could serve as a foundation for national best practices. Additionally, if a load meets the minimum 
interconnection standards, additional information on its makeup, which may change over time, 
should not be required—especially at early stages in the load’s development when it may not be 
available.  
 
Case Study: Tesla’s Gigafactory Texas 
 
Gigafactory Texas is Tesla’s 2,500-acre corporate headquarters and large-scale manufacturing 
facility near Austin, Texas. It plays a central role in our mission to accelerate sustainable 

--- PAGE 3 ---
1 Tesla Road, Austin TX 78725  
https://tesla.com 
  
November 21, 2025 
 
3 
 
abundance by producing battery materials, components, and electric vehicles, including Tesla’s 
Cybertruck, Model Y, and future Cybercab. Gigafactory Texas also embodies our principles by 
integrating energy projects, such as the installation of 133MW of grid-connected Tesla 
Megapacks, our utility-scale BESS product.  
 
In 2024, Tesla pursued interconnection for the Gigafactory Texas Megapack project, declaring the 
use case as back-up generation to load. The interconnection process bucket was unclear for this 
application and, therefore, ERCOT developed a pathway. In ERCOT, BESS are studied as generator 
resources, grid services that provide stability to the grid (i.e. voltage and frequency), or ancillary 
services. These projects are also required to meet additional milestones, including quarterly 
stability assessment (QSA) approvals, full project registration, energization, synchronization, and 
commissioning. 
 
While contending with timeline concerns, Tesla reevaluated regulatory requirements and 
discovered that a non-exporting BESS back-up generator did not require ERCOT registration. This 
finding was initially validated by ERCOT’s presentation to the Texas House of Representatives 
Committee on State Affairs2 and later reinforced by ERCOT’s Large Load Working Group in its 
“FAQ: Stakeholder Questions on Large-Loads.”3 In the absence of this discovery, delays in 
establishing BESS back-up generation at Gigafactory Texas would pose serious financial risk 
during a utility outage at Tesla’s largest manufacturing facility. 
 
This experience highlights a broader need to establish greater clarity, efficiency, and predictability 
in the interconnection process as large load growth driven by manufacturing facilities and data 
centers continues at a rapid pace. 
 
Additional Consideration: Interconnection, DERs, and VPPs  
 
Tesla is a leader in distributed energy resources (DERs) and Virtual Power Plants (VPPs) with 
more than 1 million distributed batteries installed and 250,000 (representing 1.5GW) participating 
in grid services programs. Distributed energy resources can provide considerable capacity to 
support high load growth. VPPs, which are coordinated fleets of DERs like batteries and electric 
vehicles, can be deployed in weeks and months, not the years-long construction timelines of 
conventional generation.  
 
 
2 “ERCOT Update,” Texas House of Representatives, Committee on State Affairs (March 5, 2025). 
3 “FAQ: Stakeholder Questions on Large-Loads,” Large Load Working Group, Electric Reliability Council of Texas (August 
15, 2025). 
 

--- PAGE 4 ---
1 Tesla Road, Austin TX 78725  
https://tesla.com 
  
November 21, 2025 
 
4 
 
In any proposed rule by the Commission, Tesla urges the recognition of DERs and VPPs as 
meaningful grid service tools that can support faster interconnection of large loads to the 
transmission system. VPPs should be considered for their potential to alleviate transmission 
network constraints and capacity needs associated with the interconnection of large loads.  
Tesla further urges the commission to look at constraints that today block the deployment of 
VPPs to provide accredited capacity. In 2020, the Commission issued Order No. 2222 directing 
grid operators to allow DER aggregations, such as VPPs, to participate in wholesale electricity 
markets. However, restrictive interpretations of Order No. 2222 continue to limit the participation 
of these resources. Currently, no interpretation of the Order practically enables the full value of an 
inverter-based DER. FERC must address challenges in 2222 implementations including: 1) 
metering and telemetry barriers, 2) device size thresholds, 3) state-level barriers, and particularly 
4) the lack of pathways for DERs receiving retail rate credits. Tesla believes that there is a pathway 
to unblock VPPs while addressing concerns about double-counting.  
 
Ensuring that DERs and VPPs are unblocked to provide accredited capacity and then allowing for 
the consideration of VPPs’ capacity while considering the interconnection of large loads will 
unlock a new and massive category of untapped capacity to solve the growing pressure on the 
transmission system. 
Conclusion 
 
Tesla’s status as a leader in the battery storage industry uniquely positions us to provide valuable 
insight to FERC during this process, and we welcome any opportunities to further discuss this 
important matter. Thank you for the consideration of these comments. 
 
About Tesla, Inc.  
 
Tesla’s mission is to accelerate the world’s transition to sustainable energy.4 Tesla is a U.S. 
company, headquartered in Austin, Texas, and publicly traded under the ticker symbol 
“TSLA”.5   To accomplish its mission, Tesla designs, develops, manufactures, and sells high-
performance fully electric vehicles (“EVs”) and energy generation and storage systems, installs, 
and maintains such systems, and sells solar electricity.6 Consistent with this effort, Tesla was 
 
4 See, Tesla, About, available at https://www.tesla.com/about. 
5 See, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), https://www.sec.gov/edgar/browse/?CIK=0001318605.  See 
also Tesla’s most recent Form 10-Q filed with the SEC, available 
at  https://www.sec.gov/ix?doc=/Archives/edgar/data/0001318605/000162828025045968/tsla-20250930.htm. 
6 See, Tesla, Impact Report 2024 (June 30, 2025) available at https://www.tesla.com/impact. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
1 Tesla Road, Austin TX 78725  
https://tesla.com 
  
November 21, 2025 
 
5 
 
recently ranked as the world leader in the transition to vehicle electrification.7 Tesla also develops 
and deploys autonomy and real-world artificial intelligence at scale, in vehicles and robots, 
through the development of hardware and software, including Full Self-Driving (Supervised), 
Robotaxi, and the Optimus humanoid robot.8 Tesla currently produces and sells five fully electric, 
zero emissions light-duty vehicles (“ZEVs”): including the best-selling car in the world (EV or 
otherwise), the Model Y compact sport utility vehicle.9 Along with the Model Y, Tesla 
manufactures the Model 3 mid-sized sedan, Model S sedan, the Model X SUV, and Cybertruck. 
 
In the United States, Tesla conducts manufacturing operations across multiple 
facilities. Collectively, Tesla’s U.S. facilities support over 70,000 employees and generate billions 
of dollars of U.S. investment and economic activity each year. Specifically, in its facilities in 
Fremont, California, Tesla conducts vehicle manufacturing and assembly operations, as well as 
manufacturing lithium-ion battery cells, battery packs, vehicle seats, stampings, and castings. At 
Megafactory 1 in Lathrop, California, Tesla produces Megapack, a utility-scale grid storage 
battery.10  At Gigafactory Texas in Austin, Tesla produces the Model Y and Cybertruck as well as 
cathode active materials, lithium-ion battery cells, battery packs, drive units, vehicle seats, 
stampings, and castings. Gigafactory Texas will also be home to Tesla’s next-generation vehicle 
assembly line and production of the fully autonomous Cybercab. In Sparks, Nevada, Tesla 
produces drive units, battery packs, and energy storage products (Powerwall) at Gigafactory 
Nevada, and the fully electric Semi, a commercial heavy-duty vehicle, at a new nearby facility 
under construction, which is planned for completion in early 2026. At Gigafactory New York in 
Buffalo, New York, Tesla produces its DC-fast charging equipment for the Tesla Supercharger 
network, solar energy products, and power electronics. Additionally, Tesla manufactures, builds, 
and services highly automated, high-volume manufacturing machinery at its facility in Brooklyn 
Park, Minnesota, and operates a tool and die facility in Grand Rapids, Michigan. Each Tesla factory 
uses state-of-the-art industrial robotics and manufacturing equipment to build an abundant 
future—they are the machines that build the machines.  
 
  
 
 
 
7 See, ICCT, The Global Automaker Rating 2022: Who Is Leading the Transition to Electric Vehicles? (May 31, 2023) 
available at https://theicct.org/publication/the-global-automaker-rating-2022-may23/,. 
8 See, Tesla, AI & Robotics, available at https://www.tesla.com/AI. 
9 See, Green Car Reports, The Bestselling Vehicle on the Planet is an EV (Jan. 25, 2024) available 
at https://www.greencarreports.com/news/1142104_tesla-the-bestselling-vehicle-on-the-planet-is-an-ev. 
10 See, Tesla, Megapack, available at https://www.tesla.com/megapack. 
