--- PAGE 1 ---
 
1 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
 
)  
Docket No. RM26-4 
Interstate Transmission System  
 
)  
 
 
COMMENTS OF  
THE MAINE OFFICE OF THE PUBLIC ADVOCATE 
 
The Maine Office of the Public Advocate (Maine OPA) respectfully submits these 
comments in response to the Notice Inviting Comments issued by the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission (Commission) in the above-captioned matter on October 27, 
2025. 
I. 
COMMUNICATIONS 
 
Communications and correspondence regarding this filing should be directed to 
the following: 
Andrew Landry 
Deputy Public Advocate 
Maine Office of the Public Advocate 
State House Station 112 
Augusta, ME  04333-0112 
Phone: (207) 624-3687 
Email: Andrew.Landry@maine.gov 
II. 
PARTY DESCRIPTION 
The Maine Office of the Public Advocate is an agency of the State of Maine 
authorized by the Maine legislature to represent the interests of consumers of utility 
services in utility regulatory proceedings and other forums, including participation on 
behalf of Maine consumers in federal proceedings “in which the subject matter of the 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
2 
 
action affects the consumers of any utility doing business in this State.”1 The Maine OPA 
is more particularly charged in its representation with prioritizing the interests of low 
income customers, residential customers, and small business customers.2 The Maine 
OPA filed a timely Motion to Intervene in this proceeding on November 7, 2025. 
III. 
DISCUSSION 
 
As described herein, the Maine OPA supports the Secretary of Energy’s proposal 
to implement reforms to ensure the timely and orderly interconnection of large loads to 
the interstate transmission system.3 However, the Maine OPA urges the Commission to 
proceed with caution to ensure that any final rule protects existing ratepayers by 
requiring large loads to bear the full cost of necessary network upgrades, by respecting 
existing state jurisdiction over transactions that are fundamentally retail in nature, and 
by including provisions that minimize any adverse impacts on wholesale market prices 
and transmission rates from large load interconnection. 
First, load and hybrid facilities should be responsible for 100% of the network 
upgrades that they are assigned through interconnection studies. The proposed Advance 
Notice of Proposed Rulemaking accompanying the Secretary’s Letter (proposed 
ANOPR) expresses explicit support for this protection.4 However, the proposed ANOPR 
goes on to seek comment on whether such interconnection costs should be offset 
 
1 Me. Rev. Stat. tit. 35-A, § 1702. 
2 Me. Rev. Stat. tit. 35-A, § 1702-A(3). 
3 Secretary of Energy’s October 23, 2025 letter to the Commission under section 403 of the 
Department of Energy Organization Act, 42 U.S.C. § 7173(a) (the Secretary’s Letter). 
4 Proposed ANOPR at P 25. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
3 
 
through a crediting mechanism.5 Any crediting mechanism, by necessity, results in the 
interconnecting entity being relieved of bearing 100% of cost of network upgrades, thus 
transferring the cost responsibility for the upgrades to other ratepayers. Interconnecting 
generators do not receive such credits, neither should interconnecting load. 
Second, the Commission should limit the expansion of its jurisdiction relating to 
these large load customer to interconnection. Again, the proposed ANOPR expresses 
explicit support for this protection.6 These large loads will be end use customers 
engaging in retail transactions. Such customers are currently and should remain subject 
to state jurisdiction regarding the recovery of retail costs. These costs include billing and 
metering costs, administrative and general costs, and public policy costs recovered 
through retail electricity rates. State jurisdiction also includes the reasonable allocation 
of costs among retail customer classes, including the allocation of the transmission 
revenue requirement. Finally, state jurisdiction includes authority to impose conditions 
on the sale of commodity electricity, such as requiring the licensing of competitive 
energy suppliers and requiring that retail sales of energy comply with renewable 
portfolio standards.  
The State of Maine has a number of existing large industrial loads interconnected 
directly to the high voltage the transmission system. These loads are appropriately 
treated as retail customers and are required to pay a retail rate. Retail revenue 
requirements are allocated to among customer classes on a cost of service basis that 
reflects the nature of the service that they receive, including the voltage at which they 
 
5 Id. 
6 Id. at P 15. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
4 
 
take service. This system has been in place for many years and appropriately respects 
the boundary between state and federal jurisdiction. We urge the Commission to limit 
federal jurisdiction to the interconnection process, including related charges, and leave 
the state jurisdiction otherwise intact. 
Third, rapid load growth may present challenges relating to resource adequacy, 
particularly in restructured markets such as those of ISO New England. In such 
markets, no entity has direct responsibility to plan and construct generation to serve 
new loads. Rather, these regions rely on their markets to provide adequate 
compensation to encourage the development of new generating facilities and the 
continued operation of existing facilities. Absent the corresponding development of 
supply resources, the presence of new large loads will drive up market clearing prices for 
both energy and capacity in these wholesale markets, increasing retail prices for other 
customers. It may also contribute to congestion, resulting in uplift charges that 
ultimately must be borne by all loads in congested areas. While these impacts may occur 
regardless of whether the Commission implements the policies set forth in the proposed 
ANOPR, we urge the Commission to proceed with caution. 
In this regard, any interconnection process adopted by the Commission for large 
loads should parallel the process applied to interconnecting generators. The process for 
interconnecting large loads should not be a more accelerated process than that for 
generators. Doing so would likely trigger price increases for other customers if new 
loads are not matched with new generation.  
The Maine OPA also supports the recommendation to allow and/or incentivize 
large load customers to participate in curtailment, load flexibility, and other demand 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
5 
 
response mechanisms.7 Such mechanisms allow these new large loads to minimize their 
impact on both transmission rates and wholesale market prices, as well as to reduce the 
cost of interconnection and the ongoing cost of electricity to these customers. The Maine 
OPA therefore urges the Commission to adopt the ANOPR principles that seek to 
incentivize large loads “to be curtailable and dispatchable” by a “system operator.”8  
IV. 
CONCLUSION 
The Maine OPA is pleased to express its support for the Secretary of Energy’s 
proposal, but urges the Commission to ensure that any final rule that it may adopt 
protects existing ratepayers by requiring that large loads bear the full cost of necessary 
network upgrades, by respecting existing state jurisdiction over transactions that are 
fundamentally retail in nature, and by including provisions that minimize any adverse 
impacts on wholesale market prices and transmission rates from large load 
interconnection. 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
/s/ Andrew Landry 
_____________________________ 
Andrew Landry 
Deputy Public Advocate  
Maine Office of the Public Advocate 
State House Station 112 
Augusta, ME  04333-0112 
Phone: (207) 624-3687 
Email:  Andrew.Landry@maine.gov 
 
November 21, 2025 
 
 
7 Id. at P 24. 
8 Id.  

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
6 
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
 
I hereby certify that I have this day served the foregoing document upon each 
person designated on the official service list compiled by the Secretary in this 
proceeding. 
 
 
/s/ Andrew Landry 
____________________________ 
 
November 21, 2025 
 
