--- PAGE 1 ---
1 
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the  
 
)            Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Interstate Transmission System 
 
 
)  
 
 
 
 
INITIAL COMMENTS OF THE 
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REGULATORY UTILITY COMMISSIONERS 
 
The National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners (“NARUC”), respectfully 
submits these comments responding to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (“FERC” or 
“Commission”) October 27, 2025 Notice Inviting Comments inviting comment on the Secretary 
of Energy’s proposed Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANOPR)1 pursuant to section 
403 of the Department of Energy Organization Act.2  NARUC appreciates the ANOPR disclaiming 
any intention to assert jurisdiction over distribution interconnections, generation facilities, and 
retail sales.  It is imperative that FERC, in any final rulemaking, make clear that it is affirmatively 
not asserting jurisdiction over these facilities, or end-use sales which fall squarely within the 
exclusive jurisdiction of state energy regulatory authorities. Similarly, the Commission should 
avoid any action that would circumvent or negate state decisions governing the provision of retail 
service, including, but not limited to, determinations about contracting practices related to the 
assessment of generating costs to retail load and the permissibility of direct retail access or retail 
 
1  
“Notice Inviting Comment”, Interconnection of Large Loads, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (October 27, 
2025) online at: https://elibrary.ferc.gov/eLibrary/filedownload?fileid=EB349A98-9823-C022-96B7-
9A27AB000000.  The ADVANCED NOTICE OF PROPOSED RULEMAKING, Ensuring the Timely and 
Orderly Interconnection of Large Loads (“ANOPR”) is posted separately at: 
https://elibrary.ferc.gov/eLibrary/filedownload?fileid=4D53DC3F-903A-C7F6-AF0A-9A27C4C00000   
 
2  
42 U.S.C. § 7173. 

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
 
wheeling.  This preservation of state authority is not only required by the Federal Power Act, it 
serves a practical imperative: preserving state commission authority to protect all end-use 
customers on the grid. 
In response to the ANOPR, on November 12, 2025, the NARUC Board of Directors 
adopted a Resolution Urging the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to Preserve and Affirm 
State Retail Regulatory Jurisdiction in its Large Load Interconnection Proceeding.3  The 
resolution, which is attached to these comments, specifically urges the Commission to preserve 
the states’ historic retail regulatory authority as granted by the Federal Power Act (FPA). At the 
same time, the resolution affirms the states’ commitment to engage constructively with FERC to 
find legally durable mechanisms to meet our shared goal of interconnecting large retail loads in a 
timely and non-discriminatory manner. 
NARUC’S INTEREST 
NARUC is a nonpartisan nonprofit organization founded in 1889.  Its members include the 
government agencies in the fifty States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin 
Islands charged with regulating the activities of energy, telecommunications, and water utilities.  
NARUC is recognized by Congress in several statutes4 and consistently by the Courts,5 as well as 
 
 
3  
See, Resolution Urging the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to Preserve and Affirm State Retail 
Regulatory Jurisdiction in its Large Load Interconnection Proceeding (November 12, 2025), which is attached. 
 
4  
See 47 U.S.C. §410(c) (1971) (Congress designated NARUC to nominate members of Federal-State 
Joint Board to consider issues of common concern); see also 47 U.S.C. §254 (1996); see also NARUC, et al. v. 
ICC, 41 F.3d 721 (D.C. Cir 1994) (explaining that “[c]arriers, to get the cards, applied to . . . [NARUC], an 
interstate umbrella organization that, as envisioned by Congress, played a role in drafting the regulations that 
the ICC issued to create the "bingo card" system”).  
 
5  
See, e.g., U.S. v. Southern Motor Carrier Rate Conference, Inc., 467 F. Supp. 471 (N.D. Ga. 1979), 
aff’d 672 F.2d 469 (5th Cir. 1982), aff’d en banc on reh’g, 702 F.2d 532 (5th Cir. 1983), rev'd on other grounds, 
471 U.S. 48 (1985) (noting that “[t]he District Court permitted [NARUC] to intervene as a defendant. 
Throughout this litigation, the NARUC has represented the interests of the Public Service Commissions of those 
States in which the defendant rate bureaus operate.” 471 U.S. 52, n. 10. See also, Indianapolis Power and Light 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
 
a host of federal agencies,6 as the proper entity to represent the collective interests of State utility 
commissions.  
BACKGROUND AND DISCUSSION 
In his letter, the Secretary of the Department of Energy, Secretary Chris Wright, accurately 
points out that large loads, including AI data centers, served by utilities, should be able to connect 
to the grid in a timely and orderly manner and without undue discrimination. Further, NARUC 
applauds the Administration’s goal of revitalizing domestic manufacturing and driving American 
AI innovation, and NARUC seeks to work with the Administration and FERC to achieve these 
goals.  At the same time, as acknowledged in the ANOPR, FERC has never attempted to assert 
jurisdiction over end-user load interconnections. The reason for this fact is that FERC asserting 
jurisdiction over load interconnection is outside the boundaries imposed by the FPA. 
Under the FPA, the jurisdictional line between the federal and state governments over 
utility services is a bright one. Section 201(b)(1) of the FPA states, “[t]he provisions of this Part 
shall apply to the transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce and to the sale of electric 
energy at wholesale in interstate commerce but…shall not apply to any other sale of electric 
energy.  The statute clearly preserves state authority over retail sales. Further, the statute stipulates 
that the Commission “shall not have jurisdiction… over the facilities used for the generation of 
 
Co. v. ICC, 687 F.2d 1098 (7th Cir. 1982); Washington Utilities and Transportation Commission v. FCC, 513 
F.2d 1142 (9th Cir. 1976); compare, NARUC v. FERC, 475 F.3d 1277 (D.C. Cir. 2007); NARUC v. DOE, 851 
F.2d 1424, 1425 (D.C. Cir. 1988); NARUC v. FCC, 737 F.2d 1095 (D.C. Cir. 1984), cert. denied, 469 U.S. 1227 
(1985). 
 
6  
NRC Atomic Safety and Licensing Board Memorandum and Order (Granting Intervention to Petitioners 
and Denying Withdrawal Motion), LBP-10-11, In the Matter of U.S. Department of Energy (High Level Waste 
Repository) Docket No. 63-001-HLW; ASLBP No. 09-892-HLW-CABO4, mimeo at 31 (June 29, 2010) (“We 
agree with NARUC that, because state utility commissioners are responsible for protecting ratepayers’ interests 
and overseeing the operations of regulated electric utilities, these economic harms constitute its members’ injury-
in-fact.”). 

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
 
electric energy.”  In addition, FPA section 212(h) prohibits FERC from directing the provision of 
transmission directly to end users (retail wheeling). The FPA’s encompassing reservation to states 
of jurisdiction over retail rates and services includes retail load interconnection.   
Section 201(b) of the FPA grants the states exclusive jurisdiction “over facilities used for 
the generation of electric energy or over facilities used in local distribution or for the transmission 
of electric energy in intrastate commerce, or over facilities for the transmission of electric energy 
consumed wholly by the transmitter.” Additionally, states’ authority over integrated resource 
planning, where applicable, derives from their reserved jurisdiction under Federal Power Act 
section 201(b), enabling states to oversee utilities’ long-term forecasting of electricity demand and 
evaluation of supply- and demand-side resources to meet that demand in a cost-effective, reliable, 
and sustainable manner. 
As for its ratemaking authority, a state commission must determine the right balance 
between customer classes when determining retail rates for jurisdictional entities. If FERC were 
to assert jurisdiction over a service to a limited class of retail customers, it would interfere with 
the balancing performed by state regulators in retail rate cases, a determination that is solely a state 
decision, and which has significant rate impacts on all classes of customers. 
The FPA specifically preserves the states’ jurisdiction over retail electric services. States 
engaged in the regulation of electricity transactions and services long before Congress established 
FERC’s predecessor, the Federal Power Commission.  To close the Attleboro gap, Congress 
carved out jurisdiction over energy transactions in interstate commerce for the federal commission, 
leaving the rest with the states.7  Jurisdiction over large load interconnection falls squarely within 
 
7  
Public Util. Comm’n v. Attleboro Steam & Elec. Co., 273 U.S. 83, 89 (1927);  Compare, New York v. 
Federal Energy Regulatory Comm’n, 535 U.S. 1, 5-6 (2002)(“New York”)(“Prior to 1935, the States possessed 
broad authority to regulate public utilities, but this power was limited by our cases holding that the negative 
impact of the Commerce Clause prohibits state regulation that directly burdens interstate commerce.[] When 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
 
the residual intrastate oversight originally undertaken by states and continuously exercised 
thereafter. Section 824(a) of the FPA provides that FERC’s authority “extend[s] only to those 
matters which are not subject to regulation by the States.”8 The essential nature of retail electricity 
makes the rates, services, and operations of public utilities “affected with a public interest” and 
subject to the police powers of the state.9  
FERC has recognized “that the States retain significant control over local matters …”10 As 
the Supreme Court noted in New York, FERC admitted in Order 888 that its authority does not 
“encroach upon state authority in such traditional areas as the authority over local service issues, 
including reliability of local service; administration of integrated resources planning and utility 
buy-side and demand-side decisions, including DSM; authority over utility generation and 
resources portfolios; and authority to impose non-bypassable distribution or retail stranded 
cost charges.”11 FERC also acknowledged in Order 888, that it did not assert jurisdiction to order 
retail transmission directly to an ultimate retail consumer because states retained “authority over 
the service of delivering electric energy to end users . . . . State regulation of most power production 
and virtually all distribution and consumption of electric energy is clearly distinguishable [from 
 
confronted with an attempt by Rhode Island to regulate the rates charged by a Rhode Island plant selling 
electricity to a Massachusetts company, which resold the electricity to the city of Attleboro, Massachusetts, we 
invalidated the regulation because it imposed a "direct burden upon interstate commerce."… [c]reating what has 
become known as the "Attleboro gap"… When it enacted the FPA in 1935,[] Congress authorized federal 
regulation of electricity in areas beyond the reach of state power, such as the gap identified in Attleboro . . . 
Specifically, in § 201(b) of the FPA, Congress recognized the FPC's jurisdiction as including "the transmission 
of electric energy in interstate commerce" and "the sale of electric energy at wholesale in interstate commerce.” 
16 U. S. C. § 824(b).”) {footnotes omitted} 
8  
16 U.S.C. § 824(a). 
 
9  
See, Munn v. Illinois, 94 U.S. 113, 125-126 (1877). 
10  
New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. at 24 (citing Order No. 888, at 31,782, n. 543). 
 
11  
Id.,(emphasis added). 
 

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
 
the Commission’s objective of Order 888 and, therefore, Order 888 is not] inconsistent with 
traditional state regulatory authority in this area.”12  FERC, through its lack of assertion of 
authority, in essence has recognized that load interconnection is within the state’s traditional 
regulatory authority that the FPA specifically reserved to the states.  
Aside from the fundamental jurisdictional issue, from a policy perspective, the states are 
well positioned to make decisions on load interconnections necessary to support the best interests 
of their citizens. Retail load interconnections are an important part of these state interests. Thus, 
the venue for a retail end-use customer who is directly affected by the services provided by the 
electric supplier is a state commission. These end-use customers can seek recourse from state 
regulators’ decisions by directly participating in state proceedings and through the process of 
electing or influencing the appointment of state regulators. 
 State public utility commissions retain jurisdiction over retail load interconnections, 
regardless of size, however, it is also true that the United States and its citizens will benefit from 
interconnecting large loads in a timely and non-discriminatory manner. Throughout this 
proceeding and future ones, NARUC pledges to engage with regulated entities and other 
stakeholders to explore consensus solutions for FERC’s consideration that will help meet national 
goals for large load interconnection, while avoiding disputes over jurisdiction that would impede 
achieving our shared goals. Working together, under the concept of cooperative federalism, will 
lead to optimal solutions.  Although the compressed timeline for comments in this initial phase of 
the ANOPR proceeding inhibits the states’ ability to offer more specific guidance at this time, we 
will continue to engage in these worthwhile efforts. 
 
12  
Id., 535 U.S. at 37 note 9 (Thomas, J., dissenting). 

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
 
NARUC respectfully requests that the FERC bring federal and state regulators together for 
a detailed examination of the challenges and goals.  Through this process, NARUC believes that a 
solution can be developed to achieve the Administration’s goals and avoid unintended 
consequences for consumers, and while still adhering to the parameters of the FPA.   
CONCLUSION 
 
NARUC encourages FERC to work collaboratively with NARUC and the state public 
utility commissions to find solutions that do not infringe upon the states’ historic authority over 
retail services, including the interconnection of end-use customers. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/ Kimberly W. Duffley 
 
James Bradford Ramsay 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GENERAL COUNSEL 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kimberly W. Duffley 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SENIOR DIRECTOR OF ENERGY POLICY  
AND LEGAL COUNSEL 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
National Association of Regulatory 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Utility Commissioners 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1101 Vermont Avenue, Suite 401 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Washington, DC 20005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
kduffley@naruc.org 
202.898.1350 
 
Dated: November 21, 2025 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
 
I hereby certify that I have this day served the foregoing document upon each person designated 
on the official service list compiled by the Secretary in this proceeding. 
 
Dated at Washington, DC: November 21, 2025 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/ Kimberly W. Duffley 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kimberly W. Duffley 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SENIOR DIRECTOR OF ENERGY POLICY  
AND LEGAL COUNSEL 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
National Association of Regulatory 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Utility Commissioners 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1101 Vermont Avenue, Suite 401 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Washington, DC 20005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
kduffley@naruc.org 
202.898.1350 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
 
Resolution Urging the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to Preserve and Affirm State Retail 
Regulatory Jurisdiction in its Large Load Interconnection Proceeding 
 
Whereas on October 23, 2025, the Secretary of Energy issued a letter pursuant to section 403 of the 
Department of Energy Organization Act directing the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to 
initiate rulemaking procedures and consider the proposed Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking 
(ANOPR) presenting reforms to ensure the timely and orderly interconnection of large loads to the 
transmission system; 
Whereas the states acknowledge the policy priorities expressed by the Secretary, and agree that ensuring 
efficient, timely, and non-discriminatory interconnection of large loads, including AI data centers, requires 
prompt and thoughtful consideration by regulators; 
Whereas to ensure that any Final Rule resulting from the ANOPR process is durable, legal, and does not 
unintentionally lead to resource adequacy challenges or more delays to the large load interconnection 
process, it is particularly important that FERC give thoughtful consideration to the concerns of the States 
and other interested parties; 
Whereas the ANOPR asserts FERC jurisdiction over the interconnection of large loads to the transmission 
system;  
Whereas the ANOPR recognizes that section 201(b) of the Federal Power Act grants the States with 
exclusive jurisdiction “over facilities used for the generation of electric energy or over facilities used in 
local distribution or for the transmission of electric energy in intrastate commerce, or over facilities for the 
transmission of electric energy consumed wholly by the transmitter.” 16 U.S.C. § 824(b);  
Whereas while the ANOPR disclaims any intention to assert jurisdiction over distribution interconnections, 
it is imperative that FERC, in any final rulemaking, make clear that it is affirmatively not asserting 
jurisdiction over end-use sales, which falls squarely within the exclusive jurisdiction of state retail energy 
regulatory authorities;  
Whereas state utility commissions are responsible for ensuring resource adequacy and the reliability and 
affordability of electric service for retail customers;  
Whereas states’ authority over integrated resource planning, where applicable, derives from their reserved 
jurisdiction under Federal Power Act section 201(b), enabling states to oversee utilities’ long-term 
forecasting of electricity demand and evaluation of supply- and demand-side resources to meet that demand 
in a cost-effective, reliable, and sustainable manner; 
Whereas the North American Electric Reliability Corporation’s (NERC) 2024 Long-Term Reliability 
Assessment found that demand growth is now higher than at any point in the past two decades due to 
demand growth from large loads, with aggregated United States winter peak load forecasted to grow by 
21.5 percent to 843 gigawatts by 2034;  
Whereas in 2023 fifteen states accounted for 80 percent of the national data center load, reflecting the 
diverse landscape of regional opportunities and challenges presented by large load growth across the United 
States;  
 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
 
Whereas any large load interconnections without sufficient available generation capacity could threaten 
reliable power service to existing retail customers, as grid operators may lack the resources needed to 
maintain system stability during peak demand or extreme weather events;  
Whereas the costs of large load interconnections, including necessary transmission upgrades and other 
infrastructure investments, may unfairly burden retail ratepayers if not properly allocated;  
Whereas under the Federal Power Act, the states retain the ability to implement protective measures, such 
as large load tariffs and flexibility requirements, and the ability to incentivize large loads to invest in local 
communities, including through programs such as facilitating large loads to interconnect more rapidly while 
bringing direct economic benefits to the community in the form of funding virtual power plants, non-
transmission alternatives or demand-side management programs;  
 
Whereas at least 20 states have approved or have pending large load tariffs or similar measures, which may 
include financial commitments, curtailment protocols, and minimum contract terms to allow for the rapid 
interconnection of large loads without compromising grid reliability or unduly burdening existing retail 
customers;  
Whereas state regulatory authorities have the expertise and authority to balance economic development 
associated with large loads with the protection of retail customers, and seek to ensure the ANOPR 
proceeding does not undermine these efforts, disrupt orderly grid planning, and lead to further resource 
adequacy and affordability challenges;  
Whereas, for all of the reasons stated above, the states strongly encourage FERC to carefully consider the 
perspectives of state regulators and other stakeholders to ensure any rulemaking proceeding does not 
inadvertently create additional challenges to resource adequacy, reliability, and affordability for retail 
customers;  
Whereas the states look forward to working with FERC and other interested parties to develop a durable 
and meaningful resolution to the ANOPR proceeding; now, therefore it be  
Resolved that the Board of Directors of the National Association or Regulatory Utility Commissioners, 
convened at its 2025 Annual Meeting and Education Conference in Seattle, Washington urges the FERC to 
preserve and affirm states’ retail regulatory authority under the Federal Power Act, ensure that large load 
interconnections do not compromise grid reliability or impose undue costs on retail customers, and respect 
state tools for promoting system flexibility and equitable cost allocation. 
______________________ 
Passed by the Committee on Electricity on November 10, 2025. 
Adopted by the NARUC Board of Directors on November 11, 2025. 
 
