--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate 
) 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Transmission System 
) 
 
 
COMMENTS OF GOVERNOR JOSH SHAPIRO AND GOVERNOR GLENN YOUNGKIN 
 
We write in response to the Secretary of the Department of Energy’s (DOE) October 23, 2025 
letter to FERC regarding the rapid growth of Large Load Additions (LLAs) to our nation’s 
electricity grid.  In that letter, the Secretary emphasized three key goals: ensuring affordable 
electricity for American consumers and industries, protecting the reliability of the grid, and 
providing a timely, orderly, and efficient process for LLA interconnection.  We share each of these 
important goals, and stand ready to work with FERC to expedite both generator- and load-side 
interconnection while lowering the cost of power in our Commonwealths and across the region. 
We welcome a strong collaboration between FERC and the states, particularly in setting uniform 
national standards that serve as a floor, not a ceiling, for state and private sector creativity.  While 
we strongly believe it is essential for states to retain significant jurisdiction in this area, we 
recognize that the timely interconnection of certain LLAs is a matter of national security and 
national economic wellbeing.  We also recognize the distinctions that you have already drawn that 
affirm the states’ longstanding authority to regulate interconnection: LLAs not connecting directly 
to the transmission system, retail sales and rates, and the siting, expansion, and modification of 
both generator and load facilities.  We note that the Secretary’s letter defines LLAs as any load 
greater than 20MW “consistent with how the Commission has defined large generation resources.”  
While we understand why DOE would seek symmetry in these two definitions, we believe that the 
limit as proposed would substantially impact traditional state jurisdiction over loads.  We look 
forward to further public participation on what characteristics and size best serve to implicate 
shared state and federal jurisdiction in this regard.  
Aside from these jurisdictional concerns, on the majority of the substance of the Secretary’s 
proposal, we write to express support, and to suggest complementary additions.  Similar to the 
compromise LLA proposal developed by four bipartisan PJM governors that is currently being 
considered by the PJM Board of Managers and other related proposals, this framework would 
provide strong incentives for LLAs to invest in nearby new energy generation and storage 
resources, to curtail during tight market conditions, and to take responsibility for their network 
upgrade costs.  It would also similarly require that hybrid facilities be studied more efficiently.  
 
However, this proposal could be even more impactful if FERC were to develop national standards 
and guidelines for RTO LLA forecasts.  As Commissioner Rosner has recognized, load forecasts 
in recent years have been challenged by the novel scale and scope of LLAs.  In some cases, for 
example, these forecasts have failed to account for the common practice of a single LLA applying 
for interconnection in multiple utility service territories.  As a result, some recent load forecasts 
have markedly exceeded real-world constraints on load construction, such as the available supply 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
 
 
 
of semiconductor chips, risking significant overbuild and associated cost increases for consumers.  
FERC’s national perspective across utilities and states could help account for these constraints and 
make load forecasts more accurate.  
 
We also respectfully suggest that FERC examine interconnection study processes, and whether it 
should be considered not just and reasonable for an interconnection request to take longer than six 
months, as recently requested by thirteen governors of both parties.  While expedited processes for 
generators paired with LLAs can help solve some near-term challenges in the capacity market, a 
more general solution to interconnection queue delays is critical to enable the important 
investments in manufacturing, AI, and infrastructure that are needed for the United States to 
compete and win. 
 
We thank you for your attention to this important issue.  Our teams stand ready to answer any 
questions regarding these concepts, and to work with you to address LLAs in ways that harmonize 
state and federal oversight without undermining state jurisdiction. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated: November 21, 2025 
