--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate 
) 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Transmission System  
 
 
 
) 
 
INITIAL COMMENTS OF THE VIRGINIA STATE  
CORPORATION COMMISSION  
 
 
On October 23, 2025, the Secretary of the Department of Energy (“Secretary”) directed the 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC” or the “Commission”) to consider an Advance 
Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) regarding the interconnection of large loads to the 
interstate transmission system and issue a final action by April 30, 2026.1  On October 27, 2025, 
the Commission issued a Notice Inviting Comments on the proposed ANOPR. 
Both the Secretary’s letter to the Commission and the ANOPR assert that “the 
interconnection of large loads directly to the interstate transmission system to access the 
transmission system and the electricity transmitted over it falls squarely within the Commission’s 
jurisdiction.  Asserting Commission jurisdiction is in the public interest.”2  In addition to asserting 
jurisdiction over such interconnections, the ANOPR sets forth 14 principles to be applied by the 
Commission in this rulemaking proceeding in applying this new jurisdiction over large load 
interconnection.3  
 
1 Secretary of Energy, Secretary of Energy’s Direction that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Initiate 
Rulemaking Procedures and Proposal Regarding the Interconnection of Large Loads Pursuant to the Secretary’s 
Authority Under Section 403 of the Department of Energy Organization Act (Oct. 23, 2025) (“ANOPR”). 
2 See, Letter of Secretary Wright to the Commission at 1-2; ANOPR at 8-9. 
3 ANOPR at Section V.  

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
 
 
Pursuant to Notice Inviting Comments, the Virginia State Corporation Commission 
(“VSCC”) respectfully submits these comments regarding the ANOPR. 
I. 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Virginia is often referred to as the “data center capital of the world.” As such, the VSCC, 
the utilities it regulates, and other stakeholders have been deeply engaged in data center 
development within the state.  The VSCC agrees that large data center loads need to be 
interconnected quickly and provided reliable service at affordable rates.  The rapid acceleration 
of data center interconnection requests in Virginia, particularly in Dominion’s service territory, 
have resulted in near-term challenges. However, the VSCC has already taken – and will continue 
to take – proactive steps to address interconnection queue backlogs and growing generation and 
transmission infrastructure needs to meet the “speed to power” policy objectives that serve the 
best interest of all Americans.  
The VSCC encourages the Commission to ensure that any action taken in the ANOPR 
proceeding does not inadvertently lead to additional delays, confusion, or queue backlogs. The 
best way to do so is to:  
o Develop a set of Commission-mandated minimum standards for large load 
interconnections, such as study deposits, site control requirements, and similar 
criteria while allowing transmission owners, and not the RTOs, who already face 
long delays and inefficiencies in their existing generation queues, to continue to 
manage large load interconnection queues with direct oversight of their state 
regulatory commissions.  
 In so doing, the Commission should acknowledge the inefficiencies 
inherent to the large, regional queues administered by PJM and other 
RTOs.  These inefficiencies can lead to longer queue lines and projects in 
states with available capacity being stuck behind projects in states that are 
already saturated.  

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
 
 
 Under this paradigm, the transmission owners would file with the 
Commission verification that a large load interconnection Tariff meeting 
such requirements has been filed with their state regulatory authority.  
 The alternative approach envisioned by the ANOPR, which would 
establish one queue at the RTO for “large loads” and a different queue at 
the local utility for every other end-use customer still left with the utility, 
would create planning and study inefficiencies and could potentially 
disrupt other important loads, like manufacturers and commercial load, 
from being able to interconnect in a timely manner.  
 An arbitrary MW-based threshold for a Commission-regulated large load 
queue could lead to gamesmanship where loads are incentivized to come 
just above or just below the MW threshold in order to qualify for a state-
run or federally-run queue.  
 The Commission should enable the accelerated interconnection of large 
loads that are willing to bring their own generation or to be co-located 
with generation by creating a fast-track generator interconnection queue 
for those verified generation resources, such as PJM’s existing 
Commission-approved Reliability Resource Initiative.  Selectively 
enabling accelerated interconnection would still allow for fast-track 
interconnection of co-located loads without necessitating a large load 
queue being run by RTOs.  
o Such a cooperative, shared state and federal jurisdictional approach ensures that a 
minimum set of standards is employed nationwide and helps accelerate large load 
interconnections without disrupting existing processes by creating inefficient 
RTO-run queues or inviting litigation over jurisdictional disputes.  
o A cooperative federalism solution will also leave the door open for the 
Commission to assert additional jurisdiction in the future if minimum standards 
need reform or state-jurisdictional large load queues are not leading to the 
anticipated efficient outcomes. This approach also avoids unnecessary unbundling 
of bundled transmission, distribution, and generation retail service in vertically 
integrated states.  

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
 
 
II. 
COMMENTS 
As the Secretary’s Letter and the ANOPR concede, the Commission has never asserted 
jurisdiction over interconnection of load, large or otherwise.4  Load interconnection has rather 
been the exclusive province under the Federal Power Act of state regulators, such as the VSCC.  
The state jurisdiction is derived from Section 201(b) of the Federal Power Act, which grants the 
States exclusive jurisdiction “over facilities used for the generation of electric energy or over 
facilities used in local distribution or for the transmission of electric energy in intrastate 
commerce, or over facilities for the transmission of electric energy consumed wholly by the 
transmitter.”5  
The VSCC agrees with the ANOPR that addressing issues related to large load 
interconnection is important.  As noted by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation 
(“NERC”) in its 2024 Long-Term Reliability Assessment,6 demand growth is now higher than at 
any point in the past two decades due to growth from these large loads.  NERC forecasts summer 
peak demand to rise by over 132 GW, and winter peak demand forecasts increasing by 149 GW 
over the 2022 assessment.  Absent well-developed policy regarding this load growth, states 
would face real resource adequacy constraints that imperil service to customers. 
Most states, including Virginia, are already using the jurisdiction reserved to them under 
the Federal Power Act to address large load issues.7  The VSCC has approved numerous 
 
4 Secretary’s Letter at 1; ANOPR at Section IV.  
5 16 U.S.C. § 824(b). 
6 North American Electric Reliability Corporation, 2024 Long-Term Reliability Assessment, 
https://www.nerc.com/globalassets/our-work/assessments/2024-ltra_corrected_july_2025.pdf. 
7 As but one example, as of the date of this filing, the Smart Electric Power Alliance’s Database of Emerging Large-
Load Tariffs includes 66 approved or pending large-load tariffs in 33 states. https://sepapower.org/large-load-tariffs-
database/. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
 
 
transmission infrastructure projects to address proposed large load additions, has approved or is 
considering large load tariffs for its cooperative and investor-owned utilities, and has held a 
technical conference on large load additions, with an additional technical conference scheduled 
for December.  It is vital that the outcome of this proceeding allows such efforts to continue.  
The ANOPR asserts that federal jurisdiction over load interconnection is justified, as 
large load interconnections are a “critical component of open access transmission service that 
require minimum terms and conditions to ensure non-discriminatory transmission service.”8  
Although these large loads are interconnecting as end-use customers, the ANOPR states that 
“[a]ny large load that seeks to interconnect to the transmission system does so to obtain 
transmission service and the appurtenant benefits of such.”9  This assertion is questionable at 
best, given that virtually all such loads do not directly interconnect to the transmission system, 
but rather have one or more on site substations to step down the transmission voltage for delivery 
to the large load.  
The legal durability of any final rule in this proceeding will thus depend on the merit of 
these assertions.  The VSCC does not believe it is necessary for the Commission to even reach 
these questions, however, as the best approach to these issues is a cooperative one, where the 
Commission sets minimum standards for interconnecting utilities to meet, while leaving it to 
state commissions to regulate these retail tariffs as they have done for many years.  Properly 
implemented, this collaborative federalism approach avoids the thorny jurisdictional issues 
raised if the Commission asserts exclusive jurisdiction over load interconnection. 
 
8 ANOPR at P. 13. 
9 Id. at P. 16. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
 
 
The VSCC therefore encourages the Commission to issue in an eventual Notice of 
Proposed Rulemaking (“NOPR”) in this docket a set of minimum standards for load 
interconnection tariffs that all load serving utilities would have to meet.  Responsibility for load 
interconnection, including maintaining a load interconnection queue and performing necessary 
load interconnection studies, would remain with the utility and overseen by state regulators.  The 
NOPR would then require that all such utilities certify to the Commission that they have filed 
such a tariff with the relevant state authority.  If necessary, utilities that do not have such tariffs 
on file with state regulators could file the tariff with the Commission. 
Again, this approach would address the issues raised in the ANOPR, and would avoid the 
jurisdictional questions raised therein, leading to a stronger and more durable final rule. This 
approach is also consistent with prior Commission practice.  For example, Order No. 888 
included both a pro forma open access tariff for public utilities and a safe harbor for non-public 
utilities that had a tariff that satisfied the Commission's comparability (non-discrimination) 
standards. 
The ANOPR suggests that certain types of interconnections, such as generator 
interconnection co-located with load, should be accelerated.10  The approach suggested herein by 
the VSCC can accommodate this interest, as the Commission could direct that a transmission 
provider coordinate studies of the load and generator interconnections.  However, this does not 
suggest that the load interconnection queue should be maintained by the RTO (in RTO regions).  
It would be most efficient for the load interconnection queue to remain with the utility that has 
insight into the retail system that will serve the new load, and any RTO attempting to study such 
interconnection would likely have to rely on the utility when performing studies.  Rather, co-
 
10 Id. at P. 20. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
 
 
located or hybrid load should be flagged for the RTO, which (after verification) the RTO would 
move to an accelerated study process, like the accelerated processes already approved by the 
Commission.11  This would maintain the efficiency of a utility-based load interconnection queue 
while ensuring that the co-located generation does not lag at the back of the generator 
interconnection queue. 
This approach would also accommodate the Commission’s stated desire that “the 
interconnection study of large loads that agree to be curtailable and hybrid facilities that agree to 
be curtailable and dispatchable should be expedited.”  Many states, including Virginia, are 
currently addressing data center load flexibility, and a cooperative approach in this proceeding 
would allow these efforts to proceed.12   
The shared authority the VSCC proposes would best address resource adequacy concerns, 
as it would keep load and supply planning together at the state level.  This is particularly 
important in vertically integrated states with robust integrated resource planning regimes.  These 
processes, enabled by the states’ reserved jurisdiction under the Federal Power Act, enables states 
to oversee utilities’ long-term forecasting of electricity demand and evaluation of supply and 
demand-side resources to meet that demand in a cost-effective, reliable, and sustainable manner, 
and would be threatened by any federal takeover of load interconnection.   This approach also 
avoids unnecessary unbundling of bundled transmission, distribution, and generation retail 
service in vertically integrated states. 
 
11 For example, in February the Commission approved PJM’s Reliability Resource Initiative, which enabled fast-
track processing of up to 50 projects already part of PJM’s Transition Cycle 2.  PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Order 
Accepting Tariff Revisions, 190 FERC ¶ 61,084 (Feb. 11, 2025). 
12 Specifically, the VSCC is holding a technical conference on data center load flexibility in December 2025.  Ex 
Parte: Electric Utilities and Data Center Load Growth, Scheduling Order and Notice of Technical Conference on 
Large Load Flexibility, Case No. PUR-2024-00144 (Oct. 23, 2025).   

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 
 
 
The ANOPR also suggests that “load and hybrid facilities should be subject to 
standardized study deposits, readiness requirements, and withdrawal penalties.”13  Like almost 
half of the states, the VSCC is currently considering new large load tariffs and addressing just 
those issues.  If the approach outlined in the ANOPR is adopted, states would no longer be able 
to continue these efforts.  However, the cooperative federalism solution discussed herein would 
allow states to incentivize large loads to invest in local communities via virtual power plants, 
non-transmission alternatives or demand-side management programs.  
The non-cooperative alternative, which would establish one queue at the RTO for “large 
loads” and one at the local utility for every other end-use customer still left with the utility, 
would create planning and study inefficiencies and could potentially disrupt other important 
loads, like manufacturers and commercial load, from being able to interconnect in a timely 
manner.  A cooperative approach mitigates these risks by allowing each utility to study all loads, 
including large loads, in a coordinated way. 
In addition, as the ANOPR recognizes, any attempt to split large load interconnections 
into a separate RTO queue requires establishing arbitrary boundaries around such large loads.  
The ANOPR proposes 20 MW, but commenters in this proceeding have already proposed 
alternative definitions.  Whatever the definition, however, such a structure encourages 
gamesmanship, such as projects to come just above or just below the cutoff, depending on 
whether state or federal jurisdiction is viewed as preferable.  Leaving load interconnections to be 
regulated by state commissions, as they have always been, would mitigate such regulator 
shopping. 
 
13 Id. at P. 21. 

--- PAGE 9 ---
9 
 
 
The ANOPR approach also implicates issues that the Commission has recently 
determined are retail rate matters subject to state jurisdiction. 14  By instead setting minimum 
standards to be implemented by transmission owners at the state level, the Commission could 
avoid crossing this jurisdictional boundary.    
To be clear, under the cooperative approach described herein, should the Commission 
determine in the future that the minimum standards set by the Commission need reforms or that 
state-jurisdictional large load queues are not leading to the anticipated efficient outcomes, the 
Commission will be free to take additional action.   
III. 
CONCLUSION 
Wherefore, the VSCC respectfully requests that the Commission, in any eventual NOPR 
issued in this proceeding, maintain the existing shared jurisdiction with the states and set forth a 
list of principles for load interconnection to be implemented by utilities in their state-
jurisdictional tariffs. 
Respectfully submitted, 
/s Frederick D. Ochsenhirt 
Frederick D. Ochsenhirt 
Legal Advisor to the Commission – Federal 
Regulatory Affairs 
Virginia State Corporation Commission 
P.O. Box 1197 
Richmond, Virginia 23218 
(804) 371-9671 
 
Dated: November 21, 2025 
 
 
 
14 Tri-State Generation and Transmission Association, Inc., Docket No. ER25-3316, Order Rejecting Proposed 
Tariff, 193 FERC ¶ 61,070 (Oct. 27, 2025). 

--- PAGE 10 ---
10 
 
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
 
I hereby certify that the foregoing has been served in accordance with 18 C.F.R. Section 
385.2010 upon each person designated on the official service list compiled by the Secretary in this 
proceeding.  
 
/s Frederick D. Ochsenhirt 
Frederick D. Ochsenhirt 
Legal Advisor to the Commission – Federal 
Regulatory Affairs 
Virginia State Corporation Commission 
P.O. Box 1197 
Richmond, Virginia 23218 
(804) 371-9671 
 
Dated at Richmond, Virginia this 21st day of November, 2025.   
 
