--- PAGE 1 ---
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
​
​
​
​
​
​
) 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the​
)​
​
Docket No.​
RM26-4-000 
Interstate Transmission System​
​
) 
 
 
 
COMMENTS OF CLEARPATH, INC. 
 
ClearPath, Inc. (“ClearPath”) respectfully submits these comments in response to the 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (“FERC” or “Commission”) Advanced Notice of 
Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) issued on October 27th, 2025, for Ensuring the Timely and 
Orderly Interconnection of Large Loads. ClearPath’s mission is to accelerate American 
innovation to reduce global energy emissions. To advance that mission, we develop cutting-edge 
policy solutions on clean energy and clean manufacturing innovation. An entrepreneurial, 
strategic nonprofit, ClearPath (501(c)(3)) collaborates with public and private sector stakeholders 
on innovations in carbon capture, nuclear energy, natural gas, geothermal, hydropower, energy 
storage and clean manufacturing to enable private-sector deployment of critical technologies. 
 
 
 
I.​
Communications 
All communications and service related to this filing should be directed to the following: 
 
Casey Kelly 
Program Manager, Research and Electricity 
ClearPath 
kelly@clearpath.org 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
 
 
II. Background 
ClearPath supports the Department of Energy’s (DOE) focus on advancing the United States’ 
global leadership in Artificial Intelligence (AI) and revitalizing the domestic manufacturing base. 
Regulatory reform can be critical for providing the private sector with certainty and clarity for 
capital investments while enabling innovative technologies and business approaches to thrive 
unencumbered. 
 
By 2030, an estimated $7 trillion will be invested into data centers globally, with 40% of this 
investment in the United States.1 Investments in new or expanded domestic manufacturing 
facilities have skyrocketed, with $540 billion invested in the domestic semiconductor supply 
chains in response to the Creating Helpful Incentives to Produce Semiconductors (CHIPS) and 
Science Act.2 In addition, over $290 billion has been invested in clean energy manufacturing,3 
and over $7 trillion of committed investment in U.S. manufacturing and innovation has been 
made as a result of the Trump Administration policies.4 Meanwhile, electric sector spending 
could reach $1.4 trillion by 2030 to support this demand growth, in addition to modernizing its 
distribution and transmission systems.5 
 
To realize this generational opportunity for economic growth, technological leadership, and grid 
development, regulatory predictability and certainty must be established, and innovative 
technologies and business models must be enabled, not hindered. For novel technologies that 
enable large loads to operate as dispatchable, removing market barriers is essential to allowing 
these business models to operate economically and reduce their impact on the broader system 
through flexible operations. 
 
Historically, all loads have been primarily viewed as static consumers of energy, with little to no 
attributes that contribute to reliable grid operations.  This is no longer the case.  Today, we have 
large load options and technologies that can connect to the transmission grid, responsively 
manage load, provide storage opportunities, and provide balancing services to the grid. 
 
Dispatchable loads are controllable energy demand that quickly start and stop consuming power, 
and for some technologies, can store energy. The most flexible of these technologies can follow 
energy price signals, adjusting their loads up and down to consume power when prices are lower 
and avoiding periods with high prices or emergency conditions. Dispatchable large loads can 
5 https://www.deloitte.com/us/en/insights/industry/power-and-utilities/funding-growth-in-us-power-sector.html 
4 https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/08/trump-effect-a-running-list-of-new-u-s-investment-in-president-trumps-second-term 
3 https://cleaneconomytracker.org/ 
2 https://www.csis.org/analysis/innovation-lightbulb-tracking-chips-act-incentives 
1 
https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/public-sector/our-insights/the-data-center-balance-how-us-states-can-navigate-the-opportunitie
s-and-challenges 
2 

--- PAGE 3 ---
therefore avoid peak demand periods, reducing the need for additional infrastructure build-out, 
such as transmission facilities or additional capacity resources. Large loads that are also capable 
of storing power will have much lower capacity factors, allowing for a greater degree of 
operational flexibility that can reduce system impacts and enable faster interconnection 
compared to inflexible large loads.  
 
The first example of a dispatchable large load is thermal energy storage (TES), also known as 
thermal batteries. This is a class of storage technologies that converts electricity into on-demand 
process heat for industrial customers.6 TES can also reconvert heat to power, for use by industrial 
customers or resale to utilities or in wholesale markets as a long-duration storage and capacity 
resource. TES can be directly connected to the transmission system, located behind the 
customer’s meter, and withdraw power from the grid or a directly connected generator. This heat 
can be utilized immediately by the industrial load or stored for 1-2 days, or even longer, 
depending on the application. Commercially available thermal batteries, such as Rondo,7 
Brenmiller Energy,8 and Antora,9 can supply heat at temperatures reaching 1,380°F, making them 
compatible with 75% of industrial heating applications.10 These technologies can decrease costs 
for industrial and manufacturing facilities due to their flexible operations, which allow TES to 
withdraw electricity when it produces heat more cost-effectively than alternative heat sources. 
TES can also provide grid balancing services because they can be scheduled in advance or react 
rapidly, on the order of milliseconds to minutes.11 As a result, individual utilities, balancing 
authorities, regional transmission operators (RTOs), and independent system operators (ISOs) 
can draw on TES to deliver reliability and ancillary services to manage outages and grid ramping 
needs. Providing regulatory predictability for interconnection and aligning operating capabilities 
with market access can support American industrial cost competitiveness in sectors such as 
ethanol and chemical manufacturing. 
 
The second example of a dispatchable large load is electrolyzers. This includes the category of 
technology that splits water into oxygen and hydrogen using an anode and a cathode separated 
by an electrolyte.12 These technologies can pull power from the grid during low-price periods to 
create hydrogen that can be used for petroleum refining, fertilizer production, or as a fuel. 
However, cost-competitive electrolytic hydrogen production requires the ability to purchase 
electricity at wholesale prices in order to advance American industrial competitiveness. 
 
12 https://www.energy.gov/eere/fuelcells/hydrogen-production-elecmost significantkWelectric-intensiveincentivizetrolysiones 
11 Ibid 
10 
https://www.brattle.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/Thermal-B,atteries-Opportunities-to-Accelerate-Decarbonization-of-Industrial-H
eat.pdf 
9 https://www.antora.comcompetitivenessto/ 
8 https://bren-energy.com/ 
7 https://www.rondo.comthe total outputrequiring/ 
6 
https://www.brattle.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/Thermal-Batteries-Opportunities-to-Accelerate-Decarbonization-of-Industrial-H
eat.pdfacilities'canby allowing them to withdraw electricity only when it becomesonly to withdraw electricityf 
3 

--- PAGE 4 ---
A third example of dispatchable large loads is the Electric Arc Furnace (EAF). EAFs are the 
dominant method of steel production in the U.S., accounting for 71.8% of total production in 
2024.13 They are energy-intensive customers, and as an example, can be rated at 120 MW of 
load.14 At the same time, EAFs are capable of curtailing and shifting loads quickly15 and have an 
incentive to reduce electricity consumption to enhance competitiveness, as energy accounts for 
20-40% of steel production costs.16  
 
Aligning market access, energy pricing signals, and interconnection procedures with the 
technological capabilities and business models of dispatchable large loads is critical for 
achieving just and reasonable rates, terms, and conditions that are not unduly discriminatory or 
preferential, and fosters private sector innovation and competitiveness. ClearPath applauds the 
Administration’s leadership in initiating this proceeding to determine a path forward that 
unleashes American energy resources to power our global leadership in AI and manufacturing 
while ensuring that state authority is respected.  
 
III. Comments 
 
A.​ Principle Three: FERC should better integrate transmission development with 
interconnection 
 
Timely and reliable interconnection of large loads is critical for our economy and national 
security. ClearPath strongly supports the ANOPR’s proposal to jointly study supply-side 
interconnection customers and large load interconnection customers to the extent practicable. 
Two of the most important pieces of information for interconnection customers to make 
informed investment decisions are the cost and timeframe for interconnection. As a result, 
developers of both generation and large loads often submit multiple interconnection requests as a 
means of price discovery and time-to-grid discovery. This creates unmanageable queue volumes, 
inflated demand and supply forecasts, and significant delays to the interconnection process due 
to projects withdrawing late into the process when they discover their project is not economically 
feasible due to costs or energization timelines.  
 
Coordinating interconnection studies for large loads with supply-side interconnection can enable 
the identification of more cost-effective transmission solutions and ensure that all benefiting 
customers pay, whether they are load or supply customers. This coordination can also improve a 
project’s commercial readiness because large loads that are interested in offtake agreements with 
generation will be processed on similar timelines, which reduces uncertainty for both parties. 
16 ​https://worldsteel.org/wp-content/uploads/Fact-sheet-energy-in-the-steel-industry-2021-1.pdf 
15 https://psc.ky.gov/order_vault/Orders_2025/202500208_08192025.pdf 
14 
https://psc.ky.gov/tariffs/electric/East%20Kentucky%20Power%20Cooperative%2C%20Inc/Contracts/Owen%20Electric/Nucor%20St
eel%20Gallatin/2013-06-02_Agreement%20for%20Electric%20Service.pdf? 
13 https://worldsteel.org/wp-content/uploads/World-Steel-in-Ficompetitivenessgures-2025.pdf 
4 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
In addition to coordinating interconnection studies, ClearPath recommends that FERC consider 
how the coordination and integration of transmission planning and interconnection processes – 
for both large loads and generation – also facilitates just and reasonable wholesale rates. 
Proactively planning transmission can increase transparency on the cost and timing of 
interconnection and identify cost-effective transmission solutions. In particular, when 
transmission is proactively planned, the costs for interconnection are provided to interconnection 
customers upfront, and developers have greater clarity on when they can interconnect, reducing 
uncertainty and the speculative behavior that increases queue timelines. There are nascent efforts 
on this path.  
 
The California Independent System Operator (CAISO) has implemented reforms to its 
interconnection process that focus this process on areas where transmission capacity is available 
and where transmission is being developed.17 The Southwest Power Pool (SPP) has submitted its 
Consolidated Planning Process (CPP) for FERC approval, which aligns transmission planning 
with interconnection to identify more optimal infrastructure solutions that provide multiple 
benefits and provide a predictable and transparent framework for allocating those costs to the 
beneficiaries.18 An Open Season process for developing transmission, such as Bonneville Power 
Administration’s Network Open Season,19 or the Competitive Renewable Energy Zones 
developed in Texas20 are two examples of proactive transmission planning approaches that 
provide a scalable solution for bringing projects online in a more predictable manner that 
transparently allocates costs to customers commensurate with the benefits they receive. 
 
 
B.​ Principle Five: Large Loads must be studied according to their planned operations 
and engineering designs 
 
ClearPath recommends that FERC require transmission providers to study large loads based on 
their known operating characteristics to increase the accuracy of these studies, avoid unnecessary 
network upgrades that can slow interconnection, and reduce excessive costs. In Order 2023, 
FERC requires transmission providers to study electric storage resources’ according to their 
planned operating assumptions and only for withdrawals of energy.21  We recommend that FERC 
adopt a similar approach for studying large load withdrawals and/or injections. This advances 
just and reasonable rates by avoiding overestimation of the impacts of large loads through study 
assumptions that depict worst-case scenarios, such as curtailable large loads withdrawing at full 
capacity during peak demand periods, or conflicts with installed control technologies or system 
21 https://www.ferc.gov/media/order-no-2023 
20 https://www.nrc.gov/docs/ML0914/ML091420467.pdf 
19 https://www.nrg.com/assets/documents/energy-policy/grid-strategies-electric-network-open-seasons080924.pdf 
18 
https://elibrary.ferc.gov/eLibrary/filelist?accession_number=20251103-5149&optimized=false&sid=7c8ec448-abb4-495d-b95e-f5d12
66d32e4 
17 https://elibrary.ferc.gov/eLibrary/filelist?accession_number=20240930-3094&optimized=false 
5 

--- PAGE 6 ---
protection facilities. This also reduces undue discriminatory or preferential barriers to large loads 
that employ technological innovations, enabling them to be curtailable or dispatchable. 
 
 
C.​ Principle Seven: FERC should remove market barriers to economically-efficient, 
flexible operations 
 
FERC’s pro forma interconnection procedures for large loads should offer different 
interconnection service options to facilitate customer choice, particularly for customers with 
operating capabilities such as dispatchability or curtailability. These could be similar to the 
interconnection service options available to generation and storage interconnection customers, 
including network resource integration service (NRIS), energy resource integration service 
(ERIS), provisional ERIS, and surplus interconnection service. Customers seeking 
interconnection at different levels or through various arrangements, such as co-location, should 
be studied separately to the maximum extent practicable, enabling faster interconnection when 
possible. For example, CAISO’s interconnection process for generation and storage prioritizes 
projects that can reliably and safely interconnect into the system sooner over projects that have 
long lead times for their network upgrades.22 
 
FERC’s interconnection procedures for large loads must enable innovations that can increase the 
dispatchability of large loads by providing access to markets that unlock the full potential for 
flexible operations that can expedite interconnection. Federal Power Act (FPA) section 201 
makes clear that Federal regulation extends to “the sale of such energy at wholesale in interstate 
commerce” and defines this in section 201(d) as “a sale of electric energy to any person for 
resale”23 (emphasis added). Further, FERC has exercised its rate jurisdiction under FPA section 
205 for matters materially affecting rates, terms and conditions of jurisdictional service. For 
dispatchable large loads, there is the potential for hybrid engagement by large loads in wholesale 
markets.  For example, storage and other technologies that may be associated with a large load 
may sell energy back into the grid or provide ancillary services supporting grid operations.  In 
the case of TES, these large load technologies are converting this electricity into other products, 
such as heat, that are then consumed or sold to a large load. Other dispatchable large loads 
discussed here, including hydrogen electrolyzers and electric arc furnaces, consume energy for 
developing other products. The rates or charges for such wholesale market participation by large 
load technologies  must be considered subject to FERC jurisdiction under FPA section 205(a).24  
 
Any interconnection agreement for large load cannot prohibit the load from engaging in 
jurisdictional wholesale market activities such as the provision of energy (e.g., discharge of 
energy from storage into the grid) or ancillary services, including voltage support and other 
24 https://www.ferc.gov/sites/default/files/2021-04/federal_power_act.pdf 
23 https://www.ferc.gov/sites/default/files/2021-04/federal_power_act.pdf 
22 https://elibrary.ferc.gov/eLibrary/filelist?accession_number=20240801-5172&optimized=false 
6 

--- PAGE 7 ---
similar support for balancing the grid. To this end, FERC must ensure that dispatchable large 
loads, in addition to co-located generating facilities, are fully compensated for providing energy 
and ancillary services to the grid. In response to FERC’s order directing reports on the 
Modernizing Wholesale Electricity Market Design, each of the Regional Transmission 
Organizations and Independent System Operators submitted comments that underscored the 
importance of flexible resources for supporting operational reliability on their systems and the 
new market products they are developing to incentivize and compensate flexible resources for 
the services they provide.25 Dispatchable large load facilities can support operational reliability 
by providing ancillary services, such as reserve, regulation, and ramping products, through 
controllable curtailment and load-following operations. FERC should foster, not hinder, these 
innovative technologies by supporting market access and cost-allocation frameworks that allow 
dispatchable large loads to support operational reliability in an economically efficient manner. 
 
We also recognize that, currently, there is no regulatory framework that provides dispatchable 
large loads access to purchasing energy at wholesale energy prices. The practical reality is that a 
large load interconnecting at a transmission voltage level also may be authorized under 
applicable state siting and permitting laws to construct, own, and operate the step-down facilities 
and feeders from the point of interconnection to its own facilities. Further, the large load 
interconnection will be metered and, in organized markets, likely represent a pricing node with 
its own locational pricing. FERC’s finding that “the interconnection of large loads to the 
transmission system falls under a practice directly affecting Commission-jurisdictional wholesale 
electricity rates” expands beyond the interconnection process to include these large load impacts 
on price formation in wholesale energy markets. This will be particularly true of large loads that 
agree to be curtailable or dispatchable as a condition of their interconnection agreement, as these 
changes in demand will have direct effects on wholesale prices. 
 
Action on direct access of large loads to wholesale energy markets is a necessary innovation that 
lines up with prior Commission actions recognizing the changing nature of grid technologies and 
capabilities. Passed in 2011, Order 745 established rules for compensating demand response 
resources, which are technologies that sell demand response services by “reducing consumption 
of electric energy from their expected levels”.26 This opened the door for price-responsive 
demand to be compensated at the locational marginal prices, provided it passes the net benefit 
test, in addition to existing demand response programs designed and administered to encourage 
curtailable demand to respond with decreased consumption during reliability or emergency 
conditions. Loads that are curtailable can incur economic losses associated with reducing their 
electricity consumption. At the same time, price-responsive demand must pass the net benefit 
test to clear the day-ahead or real-time market. Order 745 does not permit demand response 
26 https://www.ferc.gov/sites/default/files/2020-06/Order-745.pdf 
25 https://www.ferc.gov/media/ad21-10-000 
7 

--- PAGE 8 ---
resources to purchase power at the wholesale rate; instead, they are only compensated at the 
wholesale rate for reduced consumption. 
 
In 2018, FERC approved Order 841, which allows electric storage resources to participate in 
wholesale markets as both sellers and buyers. Electric storage resources are defined as “a 
resource capable of receiving electric energy from the grid and storing it for later injection of 
electric energy back to the grid”  (emphasis added).27 To the extent that some dispatchable load 
only receives energy from the grid, Order 841 does not facilitate their ability to purchase 
electricity at wholesale rates. Additionally, TES can optimize its operations to convert electricity 
into heat for resale or reconvert the heat to electricity. Only the latter transaction would fall under 
FERC’s jurisdiction under Order 841, creating additional regulatory and economic uncertainty. 
 
These were followed in 2020 by Order 2222, which removed barriers to entry for aggregations of 
distributed energy resources to participate in wholesale markets. This rule defines a distributed 
energy resource (DER) as any resource behind a customer meter and a DER aggregator as “an 
entity that aggregates one or more distributed energy resources”.28 FERC required RTOs and 
ISOs to establish bidding parameters for DERs that require purchasing power to operate, such as 
electric vehicles and electric battery storage. Because Order 2222 is extending the market access 
afforded by Order 841 and compensation mechanisms offered by Order 745, dispatchable large 
loads face the same barriers to accessing wholesale power rates. Further, while FERC declined to 
set a maximum size for individual resources in an aggregation, Order 2222 required each RTO 
and ISO to submit maximum size limits or provide justification for not establishing limits in their 
compliance filings. As a result, PJM adopted a maximum size of 5 MW29 and CAISO adopted 1 
MW30 for DERs, which further excludes the potential participation of large loads as aggregators 
with wholesale market access. 
 
In a similar vein, progress has been made at the state level to devise tariffs and market structures 
to deliver wholesale power access to large controllable loads. In July 2025, Otter Tail Power 
Company received approval for a 20-year Electric Service Agreement (ESA), with deviations 
from the standard tariff schedule, from the South Dakota Public Utility Commission.31 The ESA 
governs terms of power delivery for the controllable installation of an Antora TES facility, which 
will convert electricity into dispatchable heat for an industrial facility.32 While details of the key 
deviations are confidential, the ESA includes a dual-tariff structure to serve the load, with a 
specific Thermal Market Energy Pricing Rider for the non-firm load. The Rider more closely 
reflects wholesale power pricing by providing day-ahead prices based on the hourly 
Midcontinent Independent System Operator (MISO) locational marginal price at the facility’s 
32 Ibid 
31 https://puc.sd.gov/commission/dockets/electric/2025/el25-015/EL25-015ServiceAgreement.pdf 
30 https://www.caiso.com/Documents/Aug15-2022-ComplianceFiling-FERC-Order-No-2222-ER21-2455.pdf  
29 https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/committees-groups/subcommittees/disrs/postings/ferc-order-no-2222-overview.pdf 
28 https://www.ferc.gov/sites/default/files/2020-09/E-1_0.pdf 
27 https://www.ferc.gov/media/order-no-841 
8 

--- PAGE 9 ---
commercial pricing node, Network Integration Transmission Service costs, and any other MISO 
charges incurred by Otter Tail to serve this load.33 Approval of the ESA, including the Rider, 
highlights the South Dakota PUC’s recognition that greater access to wholesale prices more 
accurately aligns the operating capabilities of dispatchable loads with the costs they cause on the 
system and supports a growing industrial base. Despite this progress, a 
jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction approach adds additional cost, time, and uncertainty to project 
development. Addressing the issue of wholesale energy price access for large loads connecting at 
the transmission level is therefore critical to revitalizing domestic manufacturing using 
innovative technologies like EAF, electrolyzers, and TES. 
 
Simply, adopting large load interconnection procedures alone is not enough. We urge the 
Commission to take into consideration how its large load interconnection procedures and other 
FERC initiatives can ensure accessibility of large load access to wholesale energy markets. 
 
 
D.​ Principles Eleven and Twelve: FERC should align costs with system use and impact 
 
ClearPath recommends that FERC establish clear guardrails for how utilities serving large loads 
allocate costs for transmission and ancillary services to prevent cost-shifting or free riding, rather 
than prescribing a particular methodology. This approach will ensure that innovative approaches 
to cost allocation and market design, particularly for ancillary services, can continue to reflect 
reliability needs and procure those services through efficient market solutions.  
 
FERC should support approaches to cost-allocation for large load interconnections that unlock 
the flexible capabilities of co-located, hybrid, and dispatchable large load facilities to support 
operational reliability. Cost-allocation of network upgrades that combine volumetric and 
coincident peak demand charges can incentivize flexible large loads to avoid system peaks, 
therefore reducing system impacts and the need for additional infrastructure investments. Finding 
the right balance between volumetric and coincident peak demand charges could lead to more 
economically efficient outcomes while ensuring that large loads pay for their use of the system.  
 
Several utilities have piloted or implemented rate structures that leverage and incentivize EAF 
load controllability and flexibility, recognizing the grid benefits, while EAFs have valued the 
lower power costs from interruptible tariffs. As an example, utilities in Seattle,34 North 
Carolina,35 and Kentucky36 have implemented tariffs with EAF customers, including specific 
36 
https://psc.ky.gov/tariffs/electric/East%20Kentucky%20Power%20Cooperative%2C%20Inc/Contracts/Owen%20Electric/Nucor%20St
eel%20Gallatin/2013-06-02_Agreement%20for%20Electric%20Service.pdf 
35 https://www.dominionenergy.com/-/media/content/rates-and-tariffs/pdfs/north-carolina/large-business/schedule-ns.pdf 
34 https://clerk.seattle.gov/search/ordinances/121416 
33 
https://puc.sd.gov/commission/tariffs/Electric/ottertail/section14/16.pdf#:~:text=AVAILABILITY:%20This%20rider%20is%20available
%20on%20a,that%20is%20not%20oefficientwned%20by%20the%20Company 
9 

--- PAGE 10 ---
curtailment and interruptibility provisions that specify interruptible load hours, compensation, 
advance notice requirements, and “buy-through” clauses that allow EAFs to avoid curtailment 
and continue to purchase power. In another example, steel manufacturers in Ohio took advantage 
of transmission critical peak pricing pilot based on Network Service Peak Load, the metered 
demand coincident with the single zonal peak load hour for a given year, instead of a flat 
monthly demand charge based on 15 - 30 minute peak facility demand.37 This regulatory 
framework incentivized EAFs to curtail load during critical peak demand and shift production, 
leading to a reduction of peak loads by 91%.38  
 
IV. CONCLUSION 
ClearPath respectfully submits these comments to the Commission for its consideration. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
/s/ Casey Kelly 
Program Manager, Research and Electricity 
ClearPath 
kelly@clearpath.org 
 
/s/ Rafae Ghani 
Program Manager, Advanced Manufacturing 
ClearPath 
ghani@clearpath.org 
 
38 Ibid 
37 https://www.aceee.org/sites/default/files/pdfs/ssi21/panel-4/Seryak.pdf? 
10 
