--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 5, 2025 
 
 
The Honorable Laura V. Swett 
Chairman 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
888 First Street NE 
Washington, DC 20426 
 
RE: Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Docket No. RM26-4 
 
Dear Chairman Swett: 
 
 
We write to urge you to prioritize holding American families harmless from the costs 
imposed upon the nation’s grid by large loads, including data centers, as you consider the 
advanced notice of proposed rulemaking (ANOPR) submitted to the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission (FERC) by the Department of Energy (DOE).1 
 
 
The affordability of electricity in America is under threat.  Residential retail electricity 
prices have risen 13 percent since the start of the year, tripling the rate of general inflation.2  And 
power demand from data centers is set to increase dramatically, potentially further jeopardizing 
consumer bills.  Data centers could represent anywhere between 7 to 12 percent of American 
electricity demand by 2028, and one aggregate of utility forecasts showed an expected increase 
in peak demand of 120 gigawatts (GW) by 2029, or nearly 15 percent.3  Concerningly, studies 
have indicated that residential power bills are already subsidizing data center buildouts. 4  Recent 
reporting regarding the intense secrecy surrounding data center development also raises concerns 
about whether regulators have enough information about data center loads to ensure an equitable 
allocation of costs.5  Data centers and the artificial intelligence tools they power may prove to be 
 
1 Letter from Chris Wright, Secretary, Department of Energy, to David Rosner, Chairman, Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission (Oct. 23, 2025). 
2 U.S. Energy Information Administration, Electric Power Monthly (Nov. 25, 2025). 
3 Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, 2024 United States Data Center Energy Usage Report (Dec. 2024) 
(LBNL-2001637); GridStrategies, Strategic Industries Surging (Apr. 2025). 
4 Harvard Law School Environmental and Energy Law Program, Extracting Profits from the Public: How 
Utility Ratepayers Are Paying for Big Tech’s Power (Mar. 5, 2025); Union of Concerned Scientists, Connection 
Costs: Loophole Costs Customers Over $4 Billion to Connect Data Centers to Power Grid (Sept. 29, 2025). 
5 How NDAs Keep AI Data Center Details Hidden from Americans, NBC News (Oct. 28, 2025). 
BRETT GUTHRIE, KENTUCKY 
CHAIRMAN 
FRANK PALLONE, JR., NEW JERSEY 
RANKING MEMBER 
ONE HUNDRED NINETEENTH CONGRESS 
Congress of the United States 
House of Representatives 
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE 
2125 RAYBURN HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING 
WASHINGTON, DC 20515-6115 
 
Majority  (202) 225-3641 
Minority  (202) 225-2927 

--- PAGE 2 ---
The Honorable Laura V. Swett 
December 5, 2025 
Page 2 
 
incredible economic assets, but they must pay their fair share.  They cannot be built out on the 
backs of the power bills of American families across the country. 
 
 
Ensuring that the buildout of a 21st century grid is fundamentally fair will take many 
stakeholders: Congress, the federal government, and state regulators.  But we appreciate the need 
for expeditious FERC action in this case, which could help prevent a “race to the bottom” where 
data center developers would be incentivized to build in jurisdictions with the weakest 
regulations, and not in the best places to minimize the costs they impose upon the grid.  To that 
end, we ask that FERC keep the following five principles in mind as it considers its options 
pursuant to the ANOPR and individual tariff filings dealing with large data center loads that may 
arise before the Commission: 
 
1. FERC should aim to ensure that grid facilities and upgrades are only developed 
for loads that are certain to be built and ensure that those large load customers 
fully bear the cost of their interconnection facilities and network upgrades.  
FERC should also demand transparency mechanisms so it and other 
appropriate regulators can verify that these conditions are being met.  As the 
ANOPR notes, in Order 2023, FERC implemented a number of reforms to its 
generator interconnection procedures, in part to drive down the number of speculative 
generation interconnection requests, and decrease the time it took for “real” 
generation interconnection requests to be studied.6  We strongly support introducing a 
parallel version of some of these reforms, such as establishing a “first-ready, first 
served” process, imposing large study deposits, increasing financial commitments 
from load interconnection customers, and increasing financial penalties for withdrawn 
requests.  Additionally, given the significant impacts that large data center loads can 
have on local grids, FERC should consider requiring large loads to sign take-or-pay 
commitments with transmission providers, with the largest customers being subject to 
the most stringent requirements.  We also strongly support the ANOPR’s proposal that 
large load facilities should be responsible for all of the network upgrades assigned to 
them through the interconnection study process, but do not support offsetting those 
costs via a crediting mechanism.7  Furthermore, FERC should require sufficient 
transparency from grid operators so it can determine which specific large load 
facilities are responsible for specific grid upgrade needs.  Finally, we support the 
ANOPR’s proposal that load interconnection customers who are not transmission 
owners be given the opportunity to build interconnection facilities, rather than 
needing the construction of the connecting facility to be handled by a utility.8 
 
2. FERC should require transmission providers to offer non-firm, curtailable 
service in exchange for a large load interconnection applicant being given an 
expedited pathway to connect to the grid.  Research this year has indicated that 
 
6 See note 1 at P. 11. 
7 See note 1 at P. 25. 
8 See note 1 at P. 26. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
The Honorable Laura V. Swett 
December 5, 2025 
Page 3 
 
allowing large loads to take flexible service and taking a “connect and manage” type 
approach to interested customers could allow the grid to serve a substantial amount of 
demand without needing to construct new transmission or generation facilities.9  We 
support the ANOPR’s proposal on this matter.10  We also encourage FERC to 
investigate other sources of load flexibility, such as increasing access to market-based 
demand response programs. 
 
3. FERC must protect open and non-discriminatory access to the power grid and 
not undermine the reforms made to generator interconnection queues in Order 
2023.  Order 2023 instituted several vital changes to reforming our generator 
interconnection queues to get more power online quickly to serve the entire grid.  
Seeing these reforms implemented properly is vital to fixing our nation’s long-term 
issues in connecting power to the grid as quickly as possible.  While FERC has 
allowed deviations from accepted interconnection processes, it has held deviations 
from approved tariffs to a strict standard and has required them to be narrow, one-
time interventions.11  FERC must not allow transmission providers to discriminate 
between generators based on resource type or if a generator is supporting a data 
center. 
 
4. FERC should provide clarity on jurisdictional boundaries between federal and 
state regulation of these issues.  FERC has recently recognized that this boundary is 
complex, but in any proceeding under this docket, it should aim to provide clarity so 
state regulators can act quickly to keep residential ratepayers protected under their 
own powers.12  That said, if FERC asserts jurisdiction but declines to institute strong 
protections, such as requiring transmission providers to collect large security deposits 
from data center interconnection applicants or increasing other financial 
commitments from such applicants, it must not preempt states from imposing their 
own protections under their retail regulatory authorities.  
 
5. FERC must protect its independence throughout this proceeding and ensure that 
any outcome is just and reasonable, and not unduly discriminatory or 
preferential.  While DOE has authority under section 403 of the Department of 
Energy Organization Act to submit a proposal to FERC, the Commission has 
“exclusive jurisdiction with respect to any proposal made…”  At the end of the day, 
FERC, not DOE or the White House, has the ultimate responsibility to ensure that its 
rules and the rates it approves meet the requirements of the Federal Power Act.13  
Individual commissioners signing off on any final action must have complete 
 
9 Duke University Nicholas Institute for Energy, Environment & Sustainability, Rethinking Load Growth: 
Assessing the Potential for Integration of Large Flexible Loads in US Power Systems (Feb. 2025). 
10 See note 1 at P.24. 
11 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 190 FERC ¶ 61,084 (February 11, 2025). 
12 Tri-State Generation and Transmission Association, Inc., 193 FERC ¶ 61,070 (October 27, 2025). 
13 Pub. L. No. 95-91 §403(b). 

--- PAGE 4 ---
The Honorable Laura V. Swett 
December 5, 2025 
Page 4 
 
confidence that they have met their statutory burden without undue influence or 
pressure. 
 
Finally, if FERC decides to proceed further with this rulemaking, we urge FERC to 
publish a notice of proposed rulemaking (NOPR) with a fully detailed rule and allow 
stakeholders a chance to comment and offer substantive feedback on that NOPR before any final 
action.  While it is important for FERC to act expeditiously given the speed at which data centers 
are connecting to the grid, it is imperative that the Commission get any final action right.  If 
FERC feels that it needs more time to ensure that its final action is robust and meets its statutory 
obligations under the Federal Power Act, it should feel comfortable requesting an extension from 
DOE, as it has before.14   
 
If a final action can meet the criteria outlined above, then FERC will have granted 
American families a measure of protection from the costs imposed by data centers.  If the 
Commission falls short, then American families will pay the price.  We appreciate your 
consideration of our comments and stand ready to work with you to ensure American electricity 
is reliable and affordable. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
Frank Pallone, Jr. 
Ranking Member 
Kathy Castor 
Ranking Member 
Subcommittee on Energy 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14 Letter from Kevin J. McIntyre, Chairman, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, to Rick Perry, Secretary, 
Department of Energy (Dec. 7, 2017). 

--- PAGE 5 ---
The Honorable Laura V. Swett 
December 5, 2025 
Page 5 
 
cc:  
The Honorable David Rosner 
 
Commissioner 
 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
 
 
The Honorable Lindsay S. See 
 
Commissioner 
 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
 
 
The Honorable Judy W. Chang 
 
Commissioner 
 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
 
 
The Honorable David A. LaCerte 
 
Commissioner 
 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
