--- PAGE 1 ---
(Final) 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate 
Transmission System 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
REPLY COMMENTS OF INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CREDIT ASSOCIATION 
 
The International Energy Credit Association (“IECA”) submits these reply comments 
(“Reply Comments”) in response to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (“Commission” 
or “FERC”) Notice Inviting Comments issued on October 27, 2025 (“Notice”), in the above-
captioned docket. In its Notice, the Commission referenced a proposed advance notice of proposed 
rulemaking (proposed “ANOPR”) issued on October 23, 2025, by the Secretary of Energy 
(“Secretary”) pursuant to Section 403 of the Department of Energy Organization Act,1 which 
authorizes the Secretary to propose rules for consideration by the Commission. As extended by 
the Commission, the Notice requests that initial comments be submitted by November 21, 2025, 
and reply comments be submitted by December 5, 2025. The Secretary’s transmittal letter of 
October 23, 2025, called for the Commission to take “final action (no later than April 30, 2026)” 
on the Secretary’s proposed ANOPR.  
Fundamentally, the Secretary’s proposed ANOPR is intended to expedite the process of 
interconnecting large loads in excess of 20 MW to the interstate transmission system, focusing 
primarily on the interconnection of Data Centers to the grid. The Secretary’s proposed ANOPR is 
consistent with President Trump’s issuance on July 23, 2025, of Winning the Race: America’s AI 
Action Plan.  The IECA submitted its initial Comments (“Initial Comments”) on November 21, 
2025, in the above-captioned docket. The IECA appreciates the opportunity to submit these Reply 
Comments on the Secretary’s proposed ANOPR for the Commission’s consideration. 
I. 
IDENTITY AND INTEREST 
The IECA is an association of over 800 credit, risk management, legal and finance 
professionals that is dedicated to promoting the education and understanding of credit and other 
risk management-related issues in the energy industry. For the last 100 years, IECA members have 
actively promoted the development of best practices that reflect the unique needs and concerns of 
the energy industry. The IECA seeks to protect the rights and advance the interests of a broad 
range of domestic and foreign energy market participants, representatives of which make up the 
IECA’s membership. These entities finance, produce, sell, purchase for resale, and hedge their 
exposure to risk related to, substantial quantities of various physical energy commodities, 
including electricity, natural gas, oil, refined petroleum products, hydrogen, ammonia, renewable 
energy certificates, voluntary carbon credits, and numerous other energy-related physical 
commodities (both tangible and intangible) necessary for the healthy functioning of the energy 
markets and the “real economy.” 
 
1 42 U.S.C. § 7173.  

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
- 2 - 
 
As market participants in physical and financial energy markets in the U.S. and globally, 
IECA members are directly affected by the enormousness of the impact on physical and financial 
energy markets of new Data Center development, artificial intelligence (“AI”) implementation, 
new power plant construction needed to serve the Data Centers that will implement AI and other 
advanced computing functions. We also recognize that new Federal and State policies should 
encourage and support Data Center and AI development, while simultaneously protecting the 
provision of plentiful, reliable, and affordable electric energy to the nation’s electricity grid and 
its existing customers. 
 
IECA members acknowledge the critical role that Data Centers and AI are expected to play 
in the growing digital economy and we urge the Commission to work collaboratively with States 
and State commissions to ensure that any new policies and regulations arising from the Secretary’s 
ANOPR are just and reasonable to all constituencies and serve the public interest. On that basis, 
we submit these Reply Comments. 
 
II. 
PLEADINGS AND COMMUNICATIONS 
Pleadings and other communications concerning this proceeding should be directed to the 
following persons: 
Phil Lookadoo, Esq. 
Haynes and Boone, LLP 
800 17th Street, NW, Suite 500 
Washington, DC 20006 
Phone: 202-654-4510 
Email: phil.lookadoo@haynesboone.com 
 
Jeremy Weinstein, Esq. 
Law Offices of Jeremy Weinstein, PC 
1512 Bonanza Street 
Walnut Creek, CA 94596 
Phone: 925-943-2708 
Email: jweinstein@jweinsteinlaw.com 
 
III. 
REPLY COMMENTS 
After reviewing many of the initial comments submitted by others in this proceeding, the 
IECA respectfully offers the following Reply Comments. We believe the public interest is best 
served by creating a regulatory framework that supports and encourages the interconnection of 
large loads, focusing primarily on large Data Centers, but applying also to other large loads such 
as semiconductor fabrication, high-performance computing, critical minerals facilities, and many 
other forms of advanced manufacturing that require large quantities of fundamentally baseload 
electricity generation for daily operation of such large loads. 
A. BASIC DATA CENTER AND AI TERMINOLOGY. 
In the IECA’s Initial Comments submitted in this Docket No. RM26-4-000, we attempted 
to establish a common understanding of several key terms used in most discussions about Data 
Centers and AI. In these Reply Comments, we are adding the following definition: 
Data Center. A “Data Center” is a physical room, building, or other facility that 
houses IT infrastructure (i.e., large racks of computer servers, storage systems, and 
networking equipment) used to store, process, and manage data. Servers contain 
“Chips” that work together to process and store data and that ability to process data 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
- 3 - 
 
is called “Compute.” Data Centers lease their data storage capacity to third-parties 
seeking access to cloud storage capacity for their data. Data Centers also lease their 
Compute to third parties who use that Compute to: (i) train their AI models by 
expanding the model’s database (i.e., “Training Compute”); (ii) process user 
prompts (i.e., a user’s question, command, or other task-specific instruction) to an 
AI model or other computer program, such as requests to analyze new data to draw 
conclusions (i.e., inferences) about that new data (i.e., “Inference Compute”); and 
(iii) perform other advanced computing applications. 
Please note that we have not proposed a definition of “Co-Location,” primarily in 
recognition of the thousands of pages of pleadings the Commission has already received 
on the issue of “Co-Location” in FERC Docket No. EL25-49-000 (the Commission’s 
Show-Cause Order proceeding referenced below in these Reply Comments). We do ask 
that the Commission recognize that a large load which interconnects with the grid at one 
point of interconnection and is contractually tied to one or more comparably-sized 
generation resources which interconnect with the same grid at a physically “proximate” 
location, should be viewed as no less physically co-located than a large load and a 
comparably-sized generation resource that interconnect with the same grid at a single point 
of interconnection, whether in front of or behind the meter.  
Including this additional definition of “Data Center,” we intend to use the following 
list of defined terms in these Reply Comments as we also did in our Initial Comments, 
which list refers back to the definitions set forth in our Initial Comments, which are shown 
below in alphabetical order): 
AI. 
Asynchronous Computing. 
Compute. 
Inference Compute. 
Training Compute. 
Controllable Dispatch. 
Data Center. 
FLOPS. 
GPUs/Chips. 
Hyperscalers. 
Inference. 
Transient Loads. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
- 4 - 
 
B. THE COMMISSION SHOULD PROVIDE GUIDANCE REGARDING THE 
RANGE OF ACCEPTABLE OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS THAT 
COULD ACCOMPANY EACH OF THE FOLLOWING THREE CO-
LOCATION 
CONFIGURATIONS 
— 
(1) 
FIRM, 
(2) 
CO-LOCATED 
GENERATOR-CONTINGENT, OR (3) INTERRUPTIBLE — AND THE 
RANGE OF TRANSMISSION SYSTEM PROTECTIONS THAT COULD 
ACCOMPANY EACH SUCH CONFIGURATION. 
In responding to the Secretary’s ANOPR on large load interconnection, we submit that the 
Commission should propose guidance on the range of acceptable operational requirements and 
contractual obligations that large loads and co-located generation could choose to put in place to 
address what happens when and if the co-located generation facility experiences a full or partial, 
scheduled or unscheduled outage, including whether deliveries to the Co-Located Load from the 
interstate transmission system are:  
(i) 
FIRM - the Co-Located Load is intended to consume capacity and energy 
from the interconnected interstate transmission system during any outage of 
the Co-Located Generation;  
(ii) 
CO-LOCATED GENERATOR-CONTINGENT - the Co-Located Load is 
not intended to consume capacity or energy from the interconnected 
interstate transmission system during an outage of the Co-Located 
Generation; or  
(iii) 
INTERRUPTIBLE - the Co-Located Load is intended to consume energy 
from the interconnected interstate transmission system only during an 
outage of the Co-Located Generation, but such deliveries may be 
interrupted if and to the extent required by other firm customers. 
Commission guidance should also be provided regarding the range of acceptable 
transmission system protections that may be applied to each such configuration involving a Co-
Located Load and a Co-Located Generator and the owner or operator of the interconnected 
interstate transmission system. 
During the 1950s, 1960s, and 1970s, different regions of the U.S. provided varying levels 
of support for the development of large loads and large loads gravitated to regions and different 
States that welcomed such large loads. Quite often, large baseload coal-fired, natural gas-fired, or 
nuclear power plants were constructed, typically by investor-owned or municipally-owned electric 
utilities, to generate the baseload electric energy required by such large loads. Such new baseload 
generators were not necessarily located at the same point of interconnection with the grid as the 
new large load. Instead, such new baseload generators were physically interconnected with the 
same grid at locations that were physically “proximate” to the locations where such new large 
loads were interconnected with the transmission or distribution grid.  
In the 50s, 60s, and 70s, such large loads and baseload power plants were not called “co-
located loads” or “co-located generators,” but the concept was identical, and the new large load 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
- 5 - 
 
was connected contractually with and relied upon the utility that owned the new coal-fired power 
plant. 
Today, however, the regulatory systems and the technical configurations that currently 
exist in many parts of the country were not designed to address the needs of energizing the 
enormous number of new large loads requiring large quantities of baseload electric generation that 
are being developed, in the case of Data Centers, simultaneously in all fifty States.  
Interconnecting this “tsunami” of new Data Centers and other large loads to the grid faces 
what appear to be unnecessarily long delays in various regions of the country. These delays in 
interconnecting new large loads to the grid can be addressed, in part, by simultaneously 
considering and studying the impacts of adding new baseload generation at locations on the same 
grid that are physically proximate to the new large loads. However, this simultaneous consideration 
of new large loads and new generation lies squarely at the intersection of Federal and State 
regulation of the U.S. electricity grid.  
For several decades, the Commission has regulated the interconnection of new generation 
resources to the interstate transmission grid. On August 19, 2003, the Commission issued its Order 
No. 2003 requiring all public utilities that own, control, or operate facilities used for transmitting 
electric energy in interstate commerce to have on file standardized generator interconnection 
procedures and standardized generator interconnection agreements for generating facilities larger 
than 20 MW. On July 28, 2023, the Commission issued its Order No. 2023, and on March 21, 
2024, the Commission issued its Order No. 2023-A, which were intended to modernize the 
interconnection process for new generation facilities seeking to connect to the interstate 
transmission grid. Reforming the Commission’s generator interconnection process was deemed by 
the Commission to be necessary to address the backlog of 10,000 active interconnection requests 
by generators in interconnection queues throughout the U.S. that existed in 2022.2 
On the other hand, as expressed in the initial comments on the proposed ANOPR submitted 
by NARUC, VA SCC, PPUC, and other State Commissions, the siting, permitting, and 
interconnection of loads has historically been regulated by State government agencies. According 
to the foregoing initial comments, creating a Federal load queue for large loads raises jurisdictional 
and “major question” concerns. On that basis, those initial comments support guidance and 
minimum standards, but not prescriptive Federal mandates for interconnecting large loads to the 
interstate transmission grid. 
We respectfully request that the Commission get bogged down in a jurisdictional fight over  
the legal issues associated with State versus Federal jurisdiction and “major questions” concerns 
regarding whether a particular portion of the grid involves distribution or interstate transmission.3  
 
2 See the response to the first question in the Commission’s “Explainer on the 
Interconnection Final Rule” available at: https://www.ferc.gov/explainer-interconnection-final-
rule. 
3 See the Seven-Factor Test in the Commission’s Order No. 888, which is used to 
determine whether a facility’s primary function is “transmission” versus “distribution.” 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
- 6 - 
 
Instead we recommend that the Commission seek collaborative and cooperative approaches with 
the various States and State Commissions to expedite the interconnection of large loads. Working 
together is much more likely to lead to the expedited interconnection processes for large loads that 
the Secretary’s ANOPR is seeking. 
We also suggest that the Commission avoid prescriptive Federal mandates for 
interconnecting large loads to the interstate transmission grid. 
Instead, we submit that the Commission would do the most good by proposing guidance 
which developers of Data Centers and developers of new power plants could voluntarily pursue as 
a means of expediting the regulatory approvals required to meet the commercial deadlines of Data 
Centers and AI developers and users. 
Such guidance could promote and encourage a range of acceptable operational 
requirements and contractual obligations that large loads and co-located generation could choose 
to put in place to address what happens when and if the co-located generation facility experiences 
a full or partial, scheduled or unscheduled outage. Those operational requirements and contractual 
obligations should separately address the three co-location configurations we noted above, namely: 
(i) 
FIRM - the Co-Located Load is intended to consume capacity and energy 
from the interconnected interstate transmission system during any outage of 
the Co-Located Generation;  
(ii) 
CO-LOCATED GENERATOR-CONTINGENT - the Co-Located Load is 
not intended to consume capacity or energy from the interconnected 
interstate transmission system during an outage of the Co-Located 
Generation; or  
(iii) 
INTERRUPTIBLE - the Co-Located Load is intended to consume energy 
from the interconnected interstate transmission system only during an 
outage of the Co-Located Generation, but such deliveries may be 
interrupted if and to the extent required by other firm customers. 
Commission guidance could also designate the range of acceptable transmission system 
protections and contractual arrangements among Co-Located Load, Co-Located Generator, and 
the transmission grid owner or operator, that could be put into effect to ensure that the impacts of 
that co-location configuration on the grid and other customers (both generators and loads) served 
by the grid are adequately and reliably addressed. 
C. THE COMMISSION SHOULD CONSIDER UTILIZING THE RECORD 
CREATED IN ITS SHOW-CAUSE ORDER PROCEEDING IN DOCKET NO. 
EL25-49-000 IN PREPARING ITS RESPONSE TO THE SECRETARY’S 
PROPOSED ANOPR IN ORDER TO ADDRESS THE CONCERNS WE RAISED 
IN SECTION III.B. OF THESE REPLY COMMENTS. 
The issues we raised in Section III.B. of these Reply Comments are essentially the same as 
the issues that led the Commission to issue its Order Rejecting Amendments to Interconnection 
Service Agreement in PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Docket Nos. ER24-2172-000 and 001, on 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
- 7 - 
 
November 1, 2024 (“Rejection Order”). Therein the Commission explained that the amended 
interconnection service agreement (“Amended ISA”) would “increase the amount of Co-Located 
Load from 300 megawatts (MW) to 480 MW.”4 In paragraphs 13 and 14 of its Rejection Order, 
the Commission describes some of the transmission system protection provisions, included as 
“non-conforming terms and conditions” in the Amended ISA, as follows:5 
13. PJM notes that the Amended ISA contains revisions addressing system 
protection facilities with respect to the separation of the Co-Located Load in the 
event of a loss of generation output.  Specifically, PJM explains that the Amended 
ISA states that Susquehanna has installed a protection scheme to ensure the Co-
Located Load separates if there is a loss of generation output from the Customer 
Facility to ensure no power flows from the Interconnection Transmission Owner’s 
facilities to the Co-Located Load.  PJM states that this provision “reflects an 
important effort to minimize” the potential for an unauthorized taking of power 
from the PJM transmission system.  PJM explains that the Amended ISA contains 
other provisions to support reliable operations, including that Susquehanna will 
provide generator shutdown and automatic tripping data to PPL and PJM upon 
request. 
14. PJM states that the Amended ISA also includes other terms and conditions, 
including language specifying that Co-Located Load is not Station Power Load or 
Network Load  PJM explains that the Amended ISA states that the Co-Located 
Load is not intended to consume capacity and/or energy from the PJM transmission 
system. But, PJM states that the Amended ISA also identifies potential steps if 
power flows from the PJM transmission system and PPL facilities to the 
transmission facilities of the Co-Located Load.  PJM states that the Amended ISA 
is subject to revision, including PJM’s right to assess in a non-discriminatory 
manner additional rates, terms, or conditions, which may include transmission or 
ancillary service charges. 
In rejecting PJM’s Amended ISA with PPL and Susquehanna, the Commission explained 
in paragraph 85 of its Rejection Order that: 
… we find that PJM has not demonstrated that the proposed non-conforming 
provisions in the Amended ISA are necessary deviations from the pro forma ISA 
due to specific reliability concerns, novel legal issues, or other unique factors. 
Accordingly, we reject the Amended ISA.6 
 
4 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 189 FERC ¶ 61,078, slip op. at page 1 (November 1, 
2024). 
5 Id. (slip op. at page 7). 
6 Id. (slip op. at page 39). 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
- 8 - 
 
Subsequently, on February 20, 2025, the Commission issued an Order Instituting 
Proceeding Under Section 206 of the Federal Power Act and Consolidating With Other 
Proceedings (“Show Cause Order”) in Docket No. EL25-49-000, which consolidated the 
Commission’s technical conference on “large loads co-located at generating facilities” in Docket 
No. AD24-11-000 and a complaint against PJM filed by Constellation in Docket No. EL25-20-
000, with the Commission’s Section 206 Proceeding under the Show Cause Order. 
The Show Cause Order directed PJM and its Transmission Owners to either (1) show cause 
as to why PJM’s Tariff remains just and reasonable “without provisions addressing with sufficient 
clarity or consistency the rates, terms, and conditions of service that apply to co-location 
arrangements” or “(2) explain what changes to the Tariff would remedy the identified concerns.”7  
As a result of the Commission’s Show Cause Order and the many responsive pleadings 
submitted by affected market participants in Docket No. EL25-20-000, the Commission and its 
Staff should now have a relatively complete record on “co-location” issues in PJM on which to 
formulate and propose guidance in response to the ANOPR regarding the range of acceptable 
transmission system protection provisions that counterparties could apply to co-location 
arrangements involving large loads and co-located generation resources located at the same point 
of interconnection or at “proximate” points of interconnection with the interstate transmission grid. 
In addition, the Commission could use the opportunity presented by its response to the 
Secretary’s proposed ANOPR to provide a practical and useful definition of “Co-Location” that 
would recognize when large loads and comparably-sized generators were located at the same point 
of interconnection or at different points of interconnection with the same grid which are reasonably 
“proximate” to each other. 
D. IT IS STILL EARLY IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF AI, BUT QUESTIONS 
HAVE ALREADY BEGUN TO ARISE: WILL THE SUPPLY OF COMPUTE 
PROVIDED BY DATA CENTERS CONTINUE TO BE LESS THAN THE 
DEMAND FROM USERS OF COMPUTE FOR AI APPLICATIONS? WILL A 
BALANCE OF SUPPLY OF AND DEMAND FOR COMPUTE BE ACHIEVED? 
AND WILL SOME NUMBER OF DATA CENTERS BECOME STRANDED 
INVESTMENTS? 
Some investment advisors and economists are already suggesting that capital investment 
in AI and Data Centers has become a “bubble,” with capital investment exceeding investment 
levels rationally justified by the level of commercially feasible applications for AI that are known 
and measurable today. Others contend that their capital-spend on Data Centers and AI is a 
sustainable investment based on real demand that is already beginning to materialize and even 
greater demand that will materialize in the not-too-distant future. At this time, the debate is 
unresolved; Is continuing growth in new Data Centers and AI a sustainable investment trend based 
on the demand for Compute by users of AI that will continue growing into the foreseeable future, 
or are Data Centers an investment “bubble” that will eventually burst? 
 
7 Show Cause Order, Slip Op. in paragraph 2 on page 3. 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
- 9 - 
 
Reportedly, the sales or lease price for a unit of “Compute” (calculated on a per MW basis) 
today is approximately three times the price per MW of building a power plant to produce the 
electric energy required to produce that unit of “Compute.” So the current “spread” between the 
expenditure to build new sources of power generation and the revenue from sales of Compute is 
sufficient to justify the cost of installing redundant power generation equipment to ensure that an 
outage of a generator co-located with a Data Center will not result in an outage of the co-located 
Data Center. 
Over time, however, if the supply of Compute becomes balanced with or exceeds the 
demand for Compute, that “spread” could quickly narrow. If and when that happens, the impacts 
of the “commoditization” of “Compute” could cause the price for leasing or selling “Compute” to 
fall so far that the cost of achieving 100% redundancy for Data Center infrastructure could become 
too expensive for Data Center owners to economically justify. 
We support expediting the process for interconnecting large loads, particularly Data 
Centers, for all the reasons we noted in our Initial Comments. Just as the developers and customers 
of new generation facilities currently bear the costs of interconnecting new generators to the 
interstate transmission system, including the costs of all necessary system impact studies, under 
the Commission’s existing policies applicable to the interconnection of generators to the grid, we 
also support having the costs of interconnections of large loads, including the costs of all necessary 
system impact studies, be borne by the developers and customers of such large loads, which should 
place the risk of stranded investment on those in the best position to manage such risk, i.e., the 
developers of such large loads. 
Similar to the treatment afforded by the Commission to generators, if the interconnection 
of a large load provides benefits to the transmission grid and to others using that transmission grid, 
then various means should be made available to compensate the large load owner for providing 
such benefits to the transmission grid and its users. 
E. WE SUPPORT THE PROPOSALS IN THE ANOPR TO SIMULTANEOUSLY 
STUDY AND EXPEDITIOUSLY APPROVE INTERCONNECTION OF DATA 
CENTERS WITH MATCHING CO-LOCATED POWER GENERATION 
RESOURCES, BUT ANY SUCH REGULATION MUST ALSO PROVIDE 
GUIDANCE REGARDING WHAT HAPPENS WHEN THE CO-LOCATED 
GENERATOR EXPERIENCES A SCHEDULED OR UNSCHEDULED, FULL 
OR PARTIAL OUTAGE. 
We support the simultaneous study of system impacts from a Co-Located Load with its 
Co-Located Generation and the expeditious approval of the interconnection of both at a single 
point of interconnection or at two or more “proximate” points of interconnection, provided that 
the impacts on the transmission grid and other users of that transmission grid are addressed as set 
forth in Section III.B. of these Reply Comments.  
F. THE HALT TO TRADING ON THE CME ON THANKSGIVING DAY 
(11/27/2025) DUE TO FAILURE OF THE COOLING SYSTEM AT A DATA 
CENTER DEMONSTRATES THAT DATA CENTERS NEED IMMEDIATELY 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
- 10 - 
 
AVAILABLE BACK-UP SUPPLIES OF POWER, COOLING, AND OTHER 
NECESSARY INFRASTRUCTURE. 
In Section III.D. of these Reply Comments and in our Initial Comments, we talked about 
the “commoditization” of Compute and what that might mean for the revenues Data Center owners 
and users may receive for selling or leasing their Compute to third-party customers. Such 
commoditization of Compute and the rapid build-out of Data Centers could result in a balance 
being reached between the supply of Compute and the demand for Compute from users. Going 
from the shortage in the supply of Compute today to a balance or beyond to a surplus of Compute 
could produce a steep decline in the price available for selling or leasing Compute to customers 
using such Compute for AI applications.  
 
As we noted, Data Centers make money by: (i) leasing their data storage capability to cloud 
storage users; (ii) providing a platform for online services; (iii) leasing their Training Compute to 
AI model developers to “train” their AI models; (iv) leasing their Inference Compute to process 
user prompts from third-party users (some knowledgeable AI experts predict that Inference 
Compute will experience the most AI growth and produce the most revenues for Data Centers and 
AI model developers); and (v) other advanced computing applications. 
 
While “commoditization” of Compute is a future risk, the risk most on the minds today for 
Data Center owners and users, particularly Hyperscalers, is the risk of a prolonged outage of any 
Data Center that a commercial or industrial business relies on for its daily operations. 
 
Such an outage occurred on Thanksgiving Day, November 27, 2025. As reported by 
Bloomberg.com, “a data center cooling issue halted futures and options trading at the Chicago 
Mercantile Exchange” (“CME”). As reported, this Data Center located “just outside Chicago in 
Aurora, Illinois, that belongs to CyrusOne … experienced a chiller plant failure that affected 
multiple cooling units,” which “triggered an outage that caused hours of disruption to markets 
across equities, foreign exchange, bonds and commodities, and affected contracts covering trillions 
of dollars” on CME’s trading platform. 
 
For Data Centers providing similar services that require continuous online access, any 
outage is unacceptable. For Data Centers providing such services, whether such services are 
viewed as Compute or simply cloud storage or other advanced online computing capability, 
innovations in AI may never render the provision of such services into a fungible commodity that 
can be simply and easily replaced.  If so, then Data Centers providing such advanced computer 
services may find that continuing to require 99.999% availability of electric generation, cooling 
systems, and other Data Center infrastructure will continue to be a required cost of doing business. 
 
It is entirely possible that CME, and others relying on Data Centers to provide similarly 
high-reliability and high-availability online computer services, will find the cost of 100% 
redundancy for all Data Center infrastructure (i.e., electricity, cooling, etc.) as simply the cost of 
doing business at the speed and accessibility demanded by their customers and their business. On 
this basis, there could be some Data Centers for which “commoditization” causes 100% 
redundancy to be cost-prohibitive, while other Data Centers (depending on the requirements of the 
customers using each such Data Center) may find the security requirements of their customer to 
require such redundancy. 

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
- 11 - 
 
 
If that is the case, we submit that any guidance, policies, rules, or other regulations issued 
by the Commission in response to the Secretary’s ANOPR will need to be flexible enough to 
encourage and accommodate both types of Data Centers. 
 
G. EXPEDITED INTERCONNECTION AUTHORIZATION SHOULD NOT BE 
BASED ON CURTAILABILITY OF THE DATA CENTER LOAD WHEN AND 
IF THE TRANSMMISSION GRID EXPERIENCES A SHORTFALL 
UNRELATED TO THE DATA CENTER OR ITS CO-LOCATED POWER 
GENERATION RESOURCE. 
As noted by others in their initial comments in this proceeding, and in order to prevent Data 
Center outages of the type discussed above in Section III.F. of these Reply Comments, we do not 
support requiring curtailability of Data Center load as a condition to expedited interconnection of 
large loads, whether such large loads are Co-Located Loads or stand-alone large loads.  
 
As noted above, many beneficial applications of Data Centers and AI will require 
continuous operation of the Data Center 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. Excluding such 
applications of Data Centers and AI from expedited interconnection approval, because such 
applications are unable to be curtailed, would not benefit the public interest and would be harmful 
to the public interest, which we believe is served by expediting and encouraging the development 
and application of such Data Centers, AI, and other similarly high-reliability large loads. 
 
H. WHILE CURTAILABILITY SHOULD NOT BE A CONDITION TO OBTAIN 
EXPEDITED INTERCONNECTION APPROVAL, DATA CENTERS SHOULD 
BE ENCOURAGED TO UNDERTAKE ANALYSES OF AUTOMATED DATA 
CENTER 
INFRASTRUCTURE 
MANAGEMENT 
AND 
OTHER 
TECHNOLOGICAL METHODS THAT COULD ENABLE THE CURTAILING 
OF NON-COMPUTE-RELATED LOAD. 
While we do not support requiring curtailability of any large load as a condition precedent 
to receiving expedited approval of interconnections of such large load, whether Co-Located Load 
or stand-alone load (i.e., not associated with any Co-Located Generator), we do think that demand-
response reductions of any commercial or industrial load can be extremely beneficial to the 
transmission grid and its users.  
Accordingly, Commission guidance should ensure that the owners and operators of the 
transmission system advise and encourage all large loads, especially Data Centers, of the benefits 
available to them from demand-response programs. If technologically feasible, the Commission 
could explore different forms of Data Center Infrastructure Management (“DCIM”) services and 
assist the vendors of such DCIM services as a means of enabling Data Centers and other large 
loads to qualify for demand-response programs offered by the owners and/or operators of the 
interstate transmission system. 

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
- 12 - 
 
I. ANY GUIDANCE, POLICIES, RULES, OR REGULATIONS PROVIDED BY 
THE COMMISSION IN RESPONSE TO THE SECRETARY’S ANOPR MUST 
BE SUFFICIENTLY FLEXIBLE TO ENCOURAGE AND ACCOMMODATE 
INNOVATION IN DATA CENTER DEVELOPMENT, OTHER LARGE 
LOADS, AND THE ADOPTION OF AI, WHICH INNOVATIONS ARE 
INEVITABLE IN THIS NASCENT STAGE OF THEIR DEVELOPMENT. 
The development of AI and Data Centers, and many other large loads, will continue to be 
in a nascent stage for many years to come. Accordingly, we encourage the Commission to ensure 
that any guidance, policies, rules, or regulations it may issue in response to the Secretary’s ANOPR 
will be sufficiently flexible to accommodate the huge range of innovations that are likely to 
accompany the development of AI and the accelerated time periods for responding to such 
innovations in AI and Data Center applications, as well as the potential development of other 
nascent large loads involving chip fabrication, critical minerals processing, and things we have not 
yet imagined. 
IV. 
CONCLUSION 
 
The IECA appreciates the opportunity to submit these Reply Comments to the Commission 
for your review and consideration. Please do not hesitate to contact the undersigned with any 
questions regarding this filing. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CREDIT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
/s/ Phillip G. Lookadoo_____  
 
Jeremy Weinstein, Esq. 
 
 
Phillip G. Lookadoo, Esq. 
Law Offices of Jeremy Weinstein, PC 
Christian A. Nunez, Esq. 
1512 Bonanza Street  
 
 
Haynes and Boone, LLP 
Walnut Creek, CA 94596 
 
 
888 16th Street, NW, Ste 300 
925-943-2708  
 
 
 
Washington, DC 20006 
jweinstein@jweinsteinlaw.com 
 
(202) 654-4510 
Phil.lookadoo@haynesboone.com 
 
Its Attorneys 
 
 
December 5, 2025 
