--- PAGE 1 ---
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate  
 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Transmission System  
 
REPLY COMMENTS OF CRUSOE ENERGY SYSTEMS, INC. 
 
 
Pursuant to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (Commission) October 27, 
2025 Notice Inviting Comments and the November 7, 2025 Notice Granting Extension of 
Time, Crusoe Energy Systems, Inc. (Crusoe) submits these reply comments in support of the 
Department of Energy’s (DOE) Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANOPR) 
requesting that FERC establish standardized interconnection procedures and agreements for 
large loads seeking to interconnect to the transmission system.1 
I. 
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS 
Crusoe is a vertically integrated Artificial Intelligence (AI) infrastructure company that 
builds, owns, and operates data centers specifically optimized for the high-performance 
computing requirements of artificial intelligence and machine learning workloads.  Crusoe's 
primary operations involve sourcing and developing cost-effective energy, including natural 
gas, intermittent renewable power (e.g., wind, solar) and battery storage, to power its data 
center facilities.  Crusoe leverages its in-house manufacturing capabilities to rapidly deploy 
computing infrastructure that provides reliable, low-latency cloud services, including access to 
leading-edge graphics processing units (GPUs), to enterprise customers and AI developers.  
 
1 Letter from DOE Secretary Wright to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Oct. 23, 2025), 
attaching the Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, Ensuring Timely and Orderly Interconnection 
of Large Loads.  

--- PAGE 2 ---
Docket No. RM 26-4-000 
 
2 
Through its energy-first approach, Crusoe aims to reduce both the cost and the environmental 
impact of utility-scale computing infrastructure. 
The proposed technical requirements discussed in the ANOPR could enable companies 
like Crusoe that control both the build and design specifications of their facilities to serve as 
effective early implementers of these enhanced interconnection standards.  Crusoe is actively 
contributing to the development of technical and policy frameworks across the country that 
enhance grid reliability while accommodating flexible load operations.   
To prevent market inefficiencies, the Commission should establish heightened standards 
for large load and hybrid facility interconnection requests, including a significant increase in 
deposit fees and site control requirements to deter speculative requests.  Additionally, large 
load and hybrid facility interconnection customers must be required to demonstrate actual 
technical capability and financial commitment, rather than securing queue positions based 
solely on qualitative commitments that could impede legitimate development opportunities. 
Without such safeguards, speculative queue positions could significantly disrupt AI computing 
development by creating uncertainty around the transferability and value of interconnection 
rights and potentially deterring investment in data center development. 
The Commission should also prioritize hybrid facilities that combine load 
interconnection requests with onsite generation because they can reduce load requirements and 
provide valuable generation support to the grid during peak demand.  Hybrid facilities should 
be studied based on the specific load withdrawal and generation injection rights requested and 
be recognized as structures that cause significantly less impact to the transmission grid than 
large loads that do not bring generation. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
Docket No. RM 26-4-000 
 
3 
Finally, reforms are needed on the federal level to support the rapid deployment of AI 
infrastructure.  Coordinated federal action is needed to improve transmission construction and 
equipment procurement timelines.  In addition, the Commission should adopt Public Utility 
Holding Company Act (PUHCA) regulation reforms to remove federal impediments to power 
supply arrangements by eliminating “sleeve” power purchase agreement (PPA) requirements 
where retail sales are allowed by states. 
II. 
REPLY COMMENTS 
A. 
Reply Comments on the ANOPR’s Principles for Reform 
 
Principle 1: Large load and hybrid facility interconnection processes should 
be developed pursuant to federal jurisdiction. 
Large load and hybrid facility interconnections will have a significant impact on the 
regional and interregional transmission grid across multiple states.  Most commenters agree 
that large load and hybrid facility interconnection processes should be developed pursuant to 
federal jurisdiction to ensure relatively consistent rules apply across the country.  
Principle 2: Reforms should be applicable to new loads greater than 100 
MW. 
The proposed 20 MW threshold for the new large load and hybrid facility 
interconnections may be too low to efficiently advance AI deployment.  The Commission 
should consider raising the threshold to facilities above 100 MW.2  If the threshold is too low, 
 
2 See, e.g., Initial Comments of the Louisiana and Mississippi Public Service Commissions on ANOPR 
(Nov. 21, 2025), at pp 8 (proposing that “[t]he threshold should be far higher and set to only address 
larger loads that are shown to be affected by interconnection delays.”); Comments of Eversource Energy 
on ANOPR (Nov. 21, 2025), at pp 6 (recommending that “the Commission should consider a voltage or 
MW threshold (likely much greater than 20 MW) such that transmission providers could still require the 
largest loads to participate in a federal interconnection process.”); Comments of American Transmission 
Company LLC on ANOPR (Nov. 21, 2025), at pp 8 (stating that “a 20 MW threshold would be too low 
and too vague for implementing load interconnection procedures”); Initial Comments of Consumers 
Energy Company on ANOPR (Nov. 21, 2025), at pp 8-9 (stating that the “proposed 25 MW threshold is 

--- PAGE 4 ---
Docket No. RM 26-4-000 
 
4 
the queue will be bogged down with relatively small interconnections that would better be 
served through existing load interconnection processes.  To ensure that regulatory reforms 
adequately support efforts to advance AI deployment, streamlined processes should prioritize 
large facilities above 100 MW.  For example, Crusoe has under development facilities in the 
1,200 MW range with both grid interconnection and onsite natural gas production.  Facilities of 
this scale will accelerate AI deployment in the United States and should be prioritized through 
interconnection reforms. 
Principle 3: Load and hybrid facilities should be studied together with 
generating facilities.   
Crusoe has revolutionized co-located generation and scaled the technology to enable 
colocation to high levels currently deployed today.  Consistent with this third principle, hybrid 
facilities combining interconnection requests with onsite generation should be prioritized as 
they can reduce load requirements while potentially supporting the grid during peak demand.3  
Joint interconnection studies for hybrid facilities that bring new generation with load will 
expedite the interconnection process and minimize the need for costly and time-consuming 
construction of network upgrades because the impact of the new load can be offset by the 
addition of new generation.   
 
too low” and a “100 MW nationwide threshold would be more appropriate than the ANOPR’s 20 MW 
proposal.”).  
3 See, e.g., Comments of Eolian L.P. on ANOPR (Nov. 21, 2025), at pp 25 (proposing a “streamlined, 
single study, serial interconnection process…for hybrid facilities”); Comments of Meta Platforms, Inc. 
on ANOPR (Nov. 21, 2025), at pp 4-5 (strongly supporting “expedited review of facilities that co-locate 
large loads and generation”); Comment of the Information Technology Industry Council on ANOPR 
(Nov. 21, 2025), at pp 1-2 (stating that the “bundling of new generation and load in interconnection 
studies would streamline efficiencies and necessitate fewer system upgrades.”). 

--- PAGE 5 ---
Docket No. RM 26-4-000 
 
5 
Principle 4: Load and hybrid facility interconnection requests should be 
subject to heightened standards to prevent speculative interconnection 
requests from clogging the queue.  
Speculative interconnection requests are hindering AI deployment across the country.  
Speculative requests will continue to delay interconnection for large scale projects and lead to 
uncertainty in real load demand.  In addition to causing delays in interconnecting non-
speculative load, speculative interconnection requests are problematic in a number of other 
areas such as ensuring resource adequacy, transmission planning, and reliability.4  Crusoe 
supports the comments of Google5 and OpenAI6 asking the Commission to impose heightened 
standards for interconnection requests, including significant increase in deposit fees and site 
control requirements to deter speculative requests.  Heightened interconnection standards will 
also provide transmission planners with more accurate information to expedite interconnection 
studies and get a clearer picture of a new large load’s impact on the transmission system.   
Interconnection queue management and technical requirements must balance speed with 
legitimacy.  Crusoe supports the ANOPR's goal of significantly expediting interconnection 
service for large loads.  To do this, the Commission should seriously consider whether 
managing an interconnection queue on a first-come, first-served serial (or cluster) basis will 
 
4 For example, the load forecast in ERCOT is difficult to determine with accuracy because of the 
potential existence of speculative load interconnection requests.  Currently, ERCOT has a peak load of 
approximately 86 GW.  Utilities in ERCOT have forecasted the peak to be as high as 218 GW by 2031, 
but ERCOT has adjusted the load forecast to 148 GW by 2031 to remove speculative load 
interconnection requests.  
https://interchange.puc.texas.gov/search/documents/?controlNumber=55999&itemNumber=121; 
https://www.ercot.com/calendar/04072025-Board-of-Directors-Meeting.  Sharp differences in load 
forecasts can be minimized by preventing speculative load interconnection requests.  The number of 
GW currently in the ERCOT large load interconnection queue has quadrupled since last year.  
https://www.latitudemedia.com/news/ercots-large-load-queue-has-nearly-quadrupled-in-a-single-year/. 
5 Comments of Google LLC on ANOPR (Nov. 21, 2025), at pp 12-13. 
6 Initial Comments of OpenAI Inc. on ANOPR (Nov. 21, 2025), at pp 3. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
Docket No. RM 26-4-000 
 
6 
achieve the goal of interconnecting large loads in an efficient and expedited manner.  Serial 
queues with low thresholds will not be workable.  The Commission should instead establish 
clear, objective criteria that require interconnection customers to demonstrate both technical 
capability and financial commitment beyond mere qualitative assurances of curtailment 
flexibility.  Without such safeguards, speculative applicants could secure advantageous queue 
positions without demonstrating actual technical ability to meet the enhanced performance 
requirements, thereby creating barriers to entry for legitimate developers and introducing 
significant uncertainty into project valuation and transferability.   
This dynamic would have particularly adverse consequences for the financial and 
investment markets where the ability to conduct meaningful due diligence on the enforceability 
and legitimacy of interconnection rights is essential to facilitating efficient capital deployment 
in the data center and energy infrastructure sectors.  Crusoe therefore urges the Commission to 
develop robust qualification standards that balance the need for expedited processing with the 
imperative of maintaining queue integrity and market confidence.  Such qualification standards 
can include site control requirements,7 minimum queue fees of $100,000 or greater, and 
tendering full security for transmission upgrades.  
Principle 5: Hybrid facilities should be studied based on the amount of 
injection or withdrawal rights.  
 
New large load and hybrid facility interconnection processes should study the specific 
load withdrawal and generation injection rights requested by large load and hybrid facility 
developers.  Hybrid facility structures cause significantly less impact on the transmission grid 
than large loads that do not bring generation.  Thus, where hybrid facilities are proposed, the 
 
7 Options to purchase should be acceptable to demonstrate site control to enable developers to ensure 
power supplies are available before committing to purchases or leases.   

--- PAGE 7 ---
Docket No. RM 26-4-000 
 
7 
load and generation should be studied together to get an accurate picture of the load’s impact 
on the grid.8  The Commission should recognize that a one-size-fits-all study process that does 
not distinguish between hybrid facilities and large loads will discourage innovative solutions to 
expediting AI computing technologies.   
 
The Commission should follow ERCOT’s lead in exploring the feasibility of an 
expedited study process for controllable load and generation to interconnect and economically 
dispatch in the wholesale market and to participate as voluntary load shed resources.  Hybrid 
facilities should be viewed as flexible resources that can provide system-wide reliability 
benefits while having a minimal impact on the transmission system.  
 
Finally, Crusoe supports SPP’s currently proposed High Impact Large Load (HILL) and 
High Impact Large Load Generation Assessment (HILLGA) model because it is proactive and 
supported by a broad group of industry stakeholders.  SPP’s model recognizes the need to 
preserve grid-connected generation for resource adequacy and reliability concerns.   
Principle 6: Hybrid interconnections should be required to install 
protection facilities to prevent unauthorized injections or withdrawals.  
 
The Commission should require hybrid interconnections to install the system protection 
facilities necessary to prevent unauthorized injections or withdrawals that exceed the respective 
 
8 See, e.g., Motion to Intervene and Comments of DTE Electric Company on ANOPR (Nov. 21, 2025), 
at pp 11 (stating that “[b]y studying large loads and their supporting generation together, transmission 
providers can better manage the challenges posed by rapid load growth, avoid unnecessary regulatory 
complexity, and deliver faster, more predictable outcomes for all stakeholders.”); Meta Platforms, Inc., 
Comments at pp 5 (agreeing that large load should “be studied together with generating facilities”); 
Comments of the Pennsylvania Office of Consumer Advocate and Delaware Division of the Public 
Advocate on ANOPR (Nov. 21, 2025), at pp 20 (agreeing “that hybrid facilities should be studied based 
on the amount of injection and/or withdrawal rights requested, so long as the interconnection study 
process is comprehensive, technically correct, and aligns with agreed upon operational expectations that 
will be executed.”). 

--- PAGE 8 ---
Docket No. RM 26-4-000 
 
8 
rights available to the interconnection customer.9  Minimum telemetry, protection standards 
and operating schemes should be established and strictly enforced.   
Principle 7: Interconnection studies should be expedited for large loads that 
are curtailable and co-located generators that are dispatchable. 
 
Crusoe supports flexible interconnection rules that will streamline large load 
interconnections for prioritized national projects.  Specifically, Crusoe supports expedited 
interconnection study procedures to prioritize proven flexible load technologies.  As a leader in 
flexible computing, Crusoe supports expedited processes as discussed by Emerald AI,10 
Google,11 OpenAI,12 and others.13  However, it is critical that companies must demonstrate 
actual technical ability to curtail loads and advance flexible computing to be eligible for 
expedited interconnection.  If there are no stringent requirements for flexible load, the 
Commission could inadvertently create inefficiencies if unproven technologies are prioritized 
 
9 See, e.g., Comments of the Solar Energy Industries Association on ANOPR (Nov. 21, 2025), at pp 15 
(generally supporting the recommendation that “the large load and co-located facilities install the 
system protection facilities necessary to prevent unauthorized injections or withdrawals”); Comments of 
Critical Loop on ANOPR (Nov. 14, 2025), at pp 5 (recommending “[m]inimum controls and telemetry 
for LLFC participants”); Comments of Transmission Access Policy Study Group on ANOPR (Nov. 21, 
2025), at pp 16 (stating “it is essential that they be required to have system protection 
facilities/mechanisms/schemes that are adequate to enforce these limits”). 
10 Comments of Emerald AI on ANOPR (Nov. 21, 2025), at pp 1 (“We are particularly supportive of 
Principle 7 and urge the Commission to create a ‘Flexible Load Fast Track’ (FLFT)”). 
11 Google LLC, Comments at pp 11 (“The Commission Should Consider Expedited Interconnection 
Treatment of Voluntarily Flexible Loads”). 
12 OpenAI Inc., Initial Comments at pp 2 (“Consistent with Principle 7 of the DOE ANOPR, large loads 
that agree to be curtailable should be expedited.”). 
13 See Comments of Digital Power Network on ANOPR (Nov. 20, 2025), at pp 4 (stating that “[t]his 
reform is essential” and “[t]here also needs to be an even higher priority for company submissions that 
have proven their ability to curtail/dispatched at their facilities vs. new entries.”); Comments of ENGIE 
North America, Inc. on ANOPR (Nov. 24, 2025), at pp 9 (supporting “the concept of expedited 
interconnection for these types of facilities where load brings its own generation and/or storage.”); 
Comments of International Energy Credit Association on ANOPR (Nov. 21, 2025), at pp 11-12 
(supporting the use of ‘Controllable Dispatch’ and other technological means of managing outages or 
derates of either a Data Center or its associated generation facility.”). 

--- PAGE 9 ---
Docket No. RM 26-4-000 
 
9 
and expedited.  By offering expedited interconnection schedules for demonstrated flexible load, 
the Commission will encourage innovative solutions to ensure flexible load can perform as 
expected.  For example, any AI computing facility can become a fully flexible load by 
switching to their own 100% back up power source, including a natural gas plant or by pairing 
wind or solar with batteries.   
Once in the study process, subsequent rule or process changes should not apply to 
pending interconnection requests retroactively.  Crusoe is concerned that projects can get  
caught in a never-ending spiral of rule changes that will cause considerable delays even for 
projects that are nearly finished with the interconnection process.14  Crusoe has been an 
industry leader in developing new technology, such as voltage ride-through (VRT) capability 
solutions, but such innovations have caused additional unforeseen delays in receiving approvals 
to interconnect. New rules when applied retroactively will only cause delays and clog the 
interconnection queues with the inevitable re-studies.  Any new rules developed in this NOPR 
process or thereafter should apply to new projects and should not move the goal posts for 
projects already being processed under an earlier set of rules.  
Principles 8, 11 and 12: Load and hybrid facilities should be responsible for 
transmission and ancillary services costs that are fair and reasonable. 
Large loads and hybrid facilities should pay their fair share of current and future grid 
costs based on their use of the grid.  For load, that means the power that is withdrawn from the 
grid, not what the load consumes in total.   
 
14 For example, Senate Bill 6 requires ERCOT to conduct additional studies for new large loads to co-
locate with existing generation resources, a requirement that is now delaying projects that were already 
past the study process.  See S.B. 6, 89th Leg. (Tex. 2025).  In addition, ERCOT has identified voltage 
ride through (VRT) capability difficulties, yet there are no standards that exist for measuring load VRT 
capability.  This is resulting in uncertainty and delay in the interconnection process.  

--- PAGE 10 ---
Docket No. RM 26-4-000 
 
10 
Transmission and ancillary services charges should be assigned to hybrid facilities 
based on the specific grid services that the load and generation uses.  Under ERCOT’s 
generation netting rules, for example, generation and load behind a shared interconnection are 
netted together such that in each market settlement interval (fifteen minutes) if more power is 
flowing out (net generation on the grid) then it is settled as generation and no grid charges 
apply.  If more power is flowing in during the interval (net load), then it is settled as load with 
applicable grid charges.  Large loads and hybrid facilities should thus pay their fair share of 
current and future grid costs based on their use of the grid.   
Principle 9: Load and hybrid facility interconnection customers should 
have the option to build interconnection facilities and network upgrades.  
Load and hybrid facility interconnection customers should have the same option to 
build interconnection facilities and network upgrades as currently provided to generator 
interconnection customers.15  In particular, co-located generation in a hybrid facility 
interconnection structure is in a good position to expedite the construction of eligible upgrades.  
Principle 10: An existing generating facility that seeks to enter a partial 
suspension to serve a new load at the same location must go through a 
system support resource (SSR) or reliability must run type study.  
The Commission should first define what an “existing generator” is for purposes of the 
necessary withdrawal studies.  For example, an existing generator could be defined as any 
 
15 See Comments of Advanced Energy United on ANOPR (Nov. 21, 2025), at pp 25 (supporting “this as 
a critical policy to support competition and give load customers opportunities to speed and lower the 
cost of building network upgrades”); Comments of Arevia Power on ANOPR (Nov. 21, 2025), at pp 2 
(stating that it “would be open and supportive to this priority.”); Comments of Constellation Energy 
Generation, LLC on ANOPR (Nov. 21, 2025), at pp 26-27 (agreeing “that the option to build should be 
provided to large load customers subject to host utility standards as it is currently provided to generator 
interconnection customers.”); Motion to Intervene and Comments of Tri State Generation and 
Transmission Association, Inc. on ANOPR (Nov. 21, 2025), at pp 8 (supporting “the interconnection 
customer’s right to build, as long as the same rules apply to the transmission owner and the 
interconnection customer.”). 

--- PAGE 11 ---
Docket No. RM 26-4-000 
 
11 
generator that was operational as of January 1, 2026.  That operational date should remain the 
same and not become a moving target.  Any generation installed after that date would not be 
considered an existing generator that is subject to withdrawal studies.   
Any proposal to withdraw an existing generator from market availability should be 
subject to a transmission security study and a resource adequacy study, with a defined timeline 
for each.  If operational problems are shown in the studies, RTOs should be able to impose 
conditions on the withdrawing generator, such as giving the RTO the right to call back the 
power to the grid when needed.   
Principle 13: There must be a plan to implement large load and hybrid 
interconnection reforms.  
 
Given the current data center demand, Crusoe supports the DOE Secretary’s request for 
final Commission action by April 30, 2026.  As noted above, any new rules developed should 
not apply to interconnection requests retroactively.  Any new rules developed in this 
rulemaking process or thereafter should apply to new projects and should not move the goal 
posts for projects already being processed under an earlier set of rules.  
B. 
Other Needed Reforms to Support Rapid Deployment of AI Infrastructure. 
1. 
Coordinated federal action is needed to improve transmission 
construction and equipment procurement timelines.  
 
Crusoe commends the proposed ANOPR’s policy improvements to shorten study 
timelines for large load and hybrid facility interconnections.  That is one of the major sources 
of delay in the deployment of AI computing infrastructure.  Two other sources of delay are (1) 
transmission inadequacy and construction timelines and (2) the long lead times for transmission 
and generation equipment.  While these sources of delay are not specifically addressed in the 
ANOPR, it is imperative that federal policies step in to address these delays on a 

--- PAGE 12 ---
Docket No. RM 26-4-000 
 
12 
comprehensive basis.  For example, to address transmission construction delays and lack of 
interregional planning, the Commission should be more aggressive in deploying its backstop 
siting authority where needed.   
In addition, supply chain constraints for gas and electrical long lead equipment represent 
a separate challenge that will require complementary policy solutions.  Even with expedited 
interconnection studies, the time required to manufacture, deliver, and energize network 
upgrades and new transmission facilities will continue to create long lead times before large 
loads can be energized.  Currently, developers of transmission, generation and load 
interconnections are all competing for the same equipment.  Interconnections can require new, 
custom-built transformers and voltage step-down equipment, which, in some cases, require up 
to 48 months to procure.  This procurement timeline effectively becomes the critical path for 
project development, regardless of how fast the interconnection study process is conducted. 
Thus, to fully realize the benefits of expedited large load interconnection procedures, 
the Commission and other federal agencies should work together to develop complementary 
federal policy initiatives focused on domestic manufacturing capacity and production timelines 
for electrical long lead equipment that could significantly enhance the rapid deployment of data 
centers and other large loads.  Strengthening the domestic supply chain for transformers, 
switchgear, and other critical electrical equipment would not only accelerate large load 
interconnection timelines but also enhance energy security and grid resilience more broadly.  
2. 
The Commission should adopt PUHCA reforms to remove federal 
impediments to power supply arrangements by eliminating “sleeve” 
PPA requirements where retail sales are allowed by states.  
Crusoe supports EDF power solution, Inc.'s recommendations regarding reforms to the 
Commission's Public Utility Holding Company Act (PUHCA) regulations that effectively 

--- PAGE 13 ---
Docket No. RM 26-4-000 
 
13 
require independent power producers to enter into sleeve PPAs to maintain PUHCA 
exemptions.16  By requiring sleeve PPAs in states that would otherwise allow retail sales to 
large loads, the PUHCA regulations create significant impediments to hybrid facility 
development and increase costs.  Sleeve requirements impose unnecessary transaction costs and 
delays by requiring a regulatory "middleman" whose involvement adds no operational or 
commercial value but is necessary solely to maintain PUHCA exemptions for upstream owners 
and investors.  Eliminating the sleeve requirement to maintain PUHCA exemptions for 
upstream owners would reduce costs and accelerate project development.   
III. 
CONCLUSION 
For the foregoing reasons, Crusoe requests that the Commission proceed expeditiously 
to develop interconnection rules that ensure the reliable and speedy interconnection of new 
large loads and hybrid facilities of national importance.  
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/ Linda Walsh___________ 
Sara Axelrod  
 
 
 
Carrie Collier-Brown 
Nicki Cerasoli  
 
 
 
Linda Walsh 
Crusoe Energy Systems, Inc.  
 
Michael Blackwell   
1641 California Street, Suite 400 
 
Husch Blackwell LLP   
Denver, CO 80202 
 
 
 
1801 Pennsylvania Ave., NW, Suite 1000 
saxelrod@crusoe.ai 
 
 
 
Washington, DC  20006 
ncerasoli@crusoe.ai  
 
 
Tel: (202) 378-2308 
 
 
 
 
 
 
linda.walsh@huschblackwell.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
michael.blackwell@huschblackwell.com  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Counsel to Crusoe Energy Systems, Inc. 
Dated: December 5, 2025 
 
16 Comments of EDF Power Solutions, Inc. on ANOPR (Nov. 21, 2025), at pp 5 (recommending 
PUHCA reform). 
