--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System. 
) 
) 
) 
      Docket No. RM26-4-000 
COMMENTS OF META PLATFORMS, INC. 
I. 
INTRODUCTION 
Meta Platforms, Inc., (“Meta”) appreciates the opportunity to provide comments on the 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (“Commission”) Advance Notice of Proposed 
Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) on the interconnection of large loads to the interstate transmission 
system.  The ANOPR comes at a critical time.  The United States is widely recognized today as 
the global leader in artificial intelligence (“AI”).   But maintaining that edge will require satisfying 
AI’s growing computational demands, and with that the energy infrastructure needs as well.  
Winning the AI race calls for continued efforts by federal and state regulators, the power sector, 
and large load developers to ensure the United States remains conducive and attractive to 
innovation and large data center investment.  Large load interconnection practices in particular 
vary widely across the country and would benefit from more standardization, better alignment of 
costs and benefits, and greater transparency.   
Meta would like to emphasize three points for the Commission’s consideration: 
First, the Commission should consider adopting guidance, best practices, and, if 
appropriate, minimum standards for large load interconnection rather than promulgating a binding, 
detailed rule.  Adopting guidance would encourage uniformity in industry practices while allowing 
for continued private-sector innovation and accommodating the varying stages of data center 
deployment across the country.    

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
2 
 Second, the Commission should refine and build upon certain principles stated in the  
ANOPR, such as raising the minimum MW threshold for large load interconnection reform and 
expanding the eligibility criteria for expedited interconnection. 
Third, the Commission should provide clear guidance on the interconnection of co-located 
resources and other arrangements that coordinate large load and incremental generation, such as 
streamlining interconnection study processes, developing fair and efficient cost-allocation 
methodologies for behind-the-meter configurations, and providing clarity on when co-located 
facilities can proceed without initial utility or grid operator approval.   
Meta thanks the Commission and the Department of Energy for prioritizing large load 
interconnection and examining methods for improving and standardizing interconnection 
processes to drive more efficient integration of load.  We look forward to working with the 
Commission and other stakeholders on this important set of issues.   
II. 
ABOUT META 
Meta is an industry leader in data center development and has substantial experience with 
large load interconnection.  We have designed, constructed, and operated data centers in the United 
States since 2010, creating tens of thousands of jobs and enabling development of AI capabilities 
that are driving our growth.  Of Meta’s 30 publicly announced data centers, 26 are located in the 
United States, and for more than a decade Meta has worked closely with local and state 
governments, utilities and other energy providers to plan for our energy needs and secure all 
necessary agreements well in advance of our data centers coming online.1 
 
1 Meta, Global Data Center Fleet, https://datacenters.atmeta.com/all-locations/ (last visited Nov. 20, 
2025).  

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
3 
III. 
COMMENTS 
A. 
The Need for Reform of Large Load Interconnection Processes 
Meta appreciates the Commission’s and the Department of Energy’s efforts to update and 
standardize large load interconnection procedures and agreements.  Data center developers and 
other sources of large load need faster, transparent, and more predictable interconnection 
processes.  The Commission should therefore consider developing minimum standards for the 
interconnection of large loads and encouraging greater uniformity in the processes that utilities, 
grid operators, and regulators use to bring data centers online.   
The Commission, however, should not rush to impose a one-size-fits-all regulatory 
solution nationwide.  Some regions of the country are just beginning to bring data centers online, 
while others have already interconnected substantial large data center loads and are working 
quickly to add more.  Keeping this momentum going is imperative.  Issuing a detailed, standard 
rule that fails to account for the diversity in the economic landscape could slow down successful 
interconnection processes and undermine the Commission’s goal of bringing more data centers 
online faster and in a more orderly manner.2      
Meta therefore recommends that the Commission develop guidance, best practices, and, 
where appropriate, minimum standards as the starting point for improving nationwide 
interconnection processes for large loads.   Large load customers like Meta would benefit most 
from:  
● 
Clarity on timelines for processing large load interconnection requests;  
 
2 The White House, Winning the Race: America’s AI Action Plan 1 (July 2025) (warning that “onerous 
regulation” regarding AI infrastructure and development risks “‘paralyzing one of the most promising 
technologies we have seen in generations’” (quoting Vice President Vance, “Remarks by the Vice President 
at the Artificial Intelligence Action Summit in Paris, France” (Feb. 11, 2025)). 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
4 
● 
Clarity on whether the load interconnection queue must operate solely as a first-
come, first-served system or, preferably, allow for expedited service in appropriate 
situations; and 
● 
Interconnection processes that recognize the benefits of co-location and other 
arrangements that coordinate new load and incremental generation. 
As the industry matures and regulators and stakeholders develop more experience in this area, the 
Commission could consider promulgating binding rules that standardize large load 
interconnection.  But doing so too soon may risk hindering the ongoing private-sector innovation 
occurring to interconnect large loads and bogging down the efficient interconnection processes 
that some utilities already use. 
B. 
Comments on Large Load Interconnection Principles in the ANOPR 
Meta below provides comments on specific aspects of the Department of Energy’s ANOPR 
principles.  
1. Minimum threshold for interconnection reform (see para. 19).  In paragraph 19, the 
ANOPR recommends that large load interconnection reforms should apply to “new loads greater 
than 20 MW.”3  In Meta’s experience, that threshold is too low and would not accurately target 
the large loads that would most benefit from reform of interconnection processes.4  Meta proposes 
that the Commission instead consider a threshold of 75 MW or higher.5   
2. Expedited study processes (see paras. 20 and 24).  In paragraph 24, the ANOPR outlines 
an expedited interconnection study process for large loads in certain circumstances.  Meta strongly 
 
3 U.S. Dep’t of Energy, Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking: Ensuring Timely and Orderly 
Interconnection of Large Loads at P 19 (Oct. 23, 2025).   
4 See Bhargs Srivathsan et al., AI power: Expanding data center capacity to meet growing demand, 
McKinsey & Co., 5 (Oct. 2024) (“Ten years ago, a 30-megawatt (MW) center was considered large.  Today, 
a 200-MW facility is considered normal.”). 
5 See, e.g., Ethan Howland, Kansas, Michigan regulators approve large load rules for Evergy, 
Consumers Energy, Utility Dive (Nov. 10, 2025) (reporting Kansas large load tariff for “new facilities 
over 75 MW”).   

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
5 
supports expedited review of facilities that co-locate large loads and generation.  Co-location 
allows large loads to secure electric power quickly, and, in some instances, streamline the build 
out of necessary transmission infrastructure.6  Meta also agrees with the ANOPR’s 
recommendation in paragraph 20 that large load be studied together with generating facilities7—
such as by studying “the composite behavior of co-located load and generation”8—so long as joint 
study processes do not delay the interconnection of large loads.9   
However,  utilities should not limit expedited processes to only large loads or hybrid 
facilities “that agree to be curtailable,” which is discussed in paragraph 24 of the  ANOPR.10  This 
limitation would be incompatible with the operational requirements of many data centers, which 
often allow for little downtime over the course of the year.11  The backup sources of generation 
used by data centers, meanwhile, can be subject to strict regulatory and operational requirements 
when used for non-emergency deployment (like peak shaving through demand response).12  
Coordination of new load and incremental new generation allows data centers to meet their power 
 
6 Johannes Pfeifenberger et al., Optimizing Grid Infrastructure and Proactive Planning to Support Load 
Growth and Public Policy Goals, The Brattle Group, 34–37 (July 2025) (prepared for Clean Air Task Force) 
(“Brattle Group Rep.”); see also discussion infra at Part III.C.   
7 ANOPR at P 20. 
8 Brattle Group Rep. at 35, 37 (discussing ERCOT’s “integrated process for connecting load and generation 
that is co-located behind the same point of interconnection (referred to as Private Use Networks, or PUNs)” 
(citing ERCOT, Private Use Network (PUN) Capacity Report (2025)).  
9 See also discussion infra at Part III.C. 
10 ANOPR at P 24. 
11 Elec. Power Res. Inst. (“EPRI”), Powering Intelligence: Analyzing Artificial Intelligence and Data 
Center Energy Consumption at 2, 15 (2024) (reporting data center “demands for highly reliable power” and 
that “data centers function ceaselessly” to “facilitate uninterrupted services” and “24/7 availability”); U.S. 
Dep’t of Energy, Clean Energy Resources to Meet Data Center Electricity Demand (reporting that data 
centers “often require firm power sources to operate continuously”). 
12 See U.S. EPA, Fact Sheet and Frequently Asked Questions: Use of Backup Generators to Maintain the 
Reliability of the Electric Grid (May 1, 2025) (discussing 40 C.F.R. §§ 63.6640(f)(4)(ii), 60.4211(f)(3)(i), 
60.4243(d)(3)(i)).   

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
6 
demands without resorting to curtailment commitments—and therefore warrants expedited 
study.13    
3. System protection facilities (see para. 23).  Meta agrees that interconnection of hybrid 
facilities should require installation of “the system protection facilities necessary to prevent 
unauthorized injections or withdrawals that exceed [those] respective rights,” as discussed in 
paragraph 23 of the ANOPR.14   
C. 
Further Principles for Interconnection of Coordinated Load and Generation  
The Commission’s efforts in this area should recognize the benefits of co-location and 
other arrangements that coordinate the interconnection of large loads and new generation.  First, 
the Commission should clarify that large load and generation sharing a common point of 
interconnection do not require additional regulatory hurdles solely due to their co-located 
configuration.  Second, when generation to power large load is sited behind the meter, regulators 
should use cost-allocation principles that ensure no negative impacts to grid reliability or unfair 
cost shifts to other customers.  Third, the Commission should call on utilities and grid operators to 
promptly develop streamlined study processes to study large load and incremental generation 
simultaneously and on an expedited basis.  And fourth, the Commission should clarify the 
conditions under which co-located load and new generation may be sited and initially operated 
without utility or grid operator approval, in advance of later connection to the grid pursuant to 
interconnection procedures.   
 
13 Brattle Group Rep. at 35–37. 
14 ANOPR at P 23; see also Brattle Group Rep. at 35 (recommending same). 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
7 
IV. 
CONCLUSION 
Meta respectfully requests that the Commission proceed with developing guidance, best 
practices, and, where appropriate, minimum standards, in keeping with the principles proposed 
above. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
/s/ Jacob McDermott 
 
Jacob McDermott 
Assistant General Counsel – 
Energy 
Meta Platforms, Inc. 
Attn: Energy Legal 
1 Meta Way 
Menlo Park, CA 94025 
510-980-8676 
jacobmcdermott@meta.com  
 
Dated: November 21, 2025 
 
