--- PAGE 1 ---
 
1 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate )  
 
 
Transmission System 
 
 
 
) 
 
    Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
INITIAL COMMENTS OF THE 
NEW ENGLAND STATES COMMITTEE ON ELECTRICITY 
 
Pursuant to the Notice Inviting Comments issued by the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission (“Commission” or “FERC”) on October 27, 2025,1 and the Notice Granting 
Extension of Time issued by the Commission in this docket on November 7, 2025,2 the New 
England States Committee on Electricity (“NESCOE”) files initial comments on the Secretary of 
Energy’s proposed advance notice of proposed rulemaking (“proposed ANOPR”)3 for 
consideration and final action by the Commission.4  The New England Conference of Public 
Utility Commissioners (“NECPUC”)5 is also signing on to these comments. 
 
1  
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Notice Inviting Comments, Docket No. 
RM26-4-000 (Oct. 27, 2025).   
2  
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Notice Granting Extension of Time, Docket 
No. RM26-4-000 (Nov. 7, 2025).   
3  
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Secretary of Energy’s Direction that the 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Initiate Rulemaking Procedures and Proposal Regarding the 
Interconnection of Large Loads Pursuant to the Secretary’s Authority Under Section 403 of the Department of 
Energy Organization Act and Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 23, 2025). 
4  
These comments will refer to the Secretary of Energy’s October 23, 2025 letter to the Commission as the “DOE 
Letter” and the attached proposed Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking as the “proposed ANOPR.” 
5  
NECPUC, a non-profit 501(c)(3) corporation, was established in 1947 and incorporated in 1976 to provide regional 
regulatory education and assistance on matters of common concern to public utilities regulators of the six New 
England states.  NECPUC’s board of directors is comprised of commissioners from agencies from each of its six 
member states.  The Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Telecommunications and Cable is 
abstaining from this filing.  NECPUC has no independent regulatory authority.  NECPUC commissions oversee the 
retail regulation of electricity, and its ratepayers are directly affected by the issues raised in this proceeding. 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
2 
 
I. 
DESCRIPTION OF COMMENTER 
NESCOE is the Regional State Committee (“RSC”) for New England.  It is governed by 
a board of managers appointed by the Governors of Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New 
Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont and is funded through a regional tariff that ISO New 
England Inc. (“ISO-NE”) administers.6  NESCOE’s mission is to represent the interests of the 
citizens of the New England region by advancing policies that will provide electricity at the 
lowest possible price over the long term, consistent with maintaining reliable service and 
environmental quality.7  These comments represent the collective view of the six New England 
states.       
II. 
COMMENTS 
NESCOE does not dispute the statement in the proposed ANOPR that “United States 
electricity demand is expected to grow at an extraordinary pace, due, in large part, to the rapid 
growth of large loads” such as data centers.8  The size and speed with which data centers can be 
constructed and connect to the grid present unique challenges for demand forecasting and 
planning for system behavior.9  NESCOE agrees with DOE that ensuring efficient, timely, and 
non-discriminatory interconnection of large loads, including AI data centers, requires prompt and 
 
6  
ISO New England Inc., 121 FERC ¶ 61,105 (2007).   
7  
See Sept. 8, 2006 NESCOE Term Sheet that was filed for information as Exhibit A to the Memorandum of 
Understanding among ISO-NE, the New England Power Pool (“NEPOOL”), and NESCOE (the “NESCOE MOU”).  
Informational Filing of the New England States Committee on Electricity, Docket No. ER07-1324-000 (filed Nov. 
21, 2007).  Pursuant to the NESCOE MOU, the Term Sheet is the binding obligation of ISO-NE, NEPOOL, and 
NESCOE.   
8  
Proposed ANOPR at 2.   
9  
Id.; see also NERC, 2024 Long-Term Reliability Assessment (Dec. 2024, corrected July 11, 2025), at 8, available at 
https://www.nerc.com/pa/RAPA/ra/Reliability%20Assessments%20DL/NERC_Long%20Term%20Reliability%20
Assessment_2024.pdf.  

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
3 
 
thoughtful consideration by regulators.  It is also critical that such efforts prioritize maintaining 
grid reliability and energy affordability for all customers. 
However, for the reasons described in Section II.A of these comments, the ANOPR, as 
proposed, would encroach on the exclusive jurisdiction of the states to regulate retail customers 
per the provisions of the Federal Power Act (“FPA”),10 contrary to the Commission’s 
longstanding tradition and recent actions recognizing the states’ jurisdiction in this area.  For that 
reason, NESCOE recommends that the Commission not proceed with the ANOPR as proposed 
by DOE.   
Moreover, as described in Section II.B, if the Commission decides to move forward with 
a rulemaking on this subject, it should first engage in a significant collaborative process that 
would include meaningful participation from the states, regional transmission organizations 
(“RTOs”), and other stakeholders, including hosting one or more technical conferences.  Absent 
this additional collaborative process, the Commission risks creating a one-size-fits-all rule that is 
vulnerable to legal challenge and results in significant unintended consequences due to large 
state and regional differences and existing state regulation of large load interconnection 
customers.  Moreover, the process to design and initiate an effective rulemaking on this 
complicated topic would take time, and thus NESCOE also recommends that the Commission, if 
it does elect to proceed, does so on an appropriate timeline. The extremely accelerated timeline 
recommended by the DOE Letter would only exacerbate the legal risk faced by such a final rule.   
 
 
 
10  16 U.S.C. §§ 791 et seq. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
4 
 
A. 
The ANOPR as Proposed Encroaches on the States’ Jurisdiction. 
1. The States Have Exclusive Authority to Regulate Retail Electricity Sales 
Under the Federal Power Act. 
 
 
As the Department of Energy (“DOE”) itself has acknowledged, the Commission “is a 
‘creature of statute,’ having ‘no constitutional or common law existence or authority, but only 
those authorities conferred upon it by Congress.’”11  The FPA establishes a clear division: states 
oversee retail electricity services while FERC oversees interstate transmission and wholesale 
electricity markets.12  Section 201 of the FPA explicitly provides that the Commission “shall not 
have jurisdiction…over  facilities used in local distribution,” nor may FERC regulate “any other 
sale of electric energy” beyond wholesale transactions.13  As the Commission has explained, 
“[i]n EPSA, the U.S. Supreme Court stated that, although ‘the wholesale and retail markets in 
electricity are inextricably linked,’ the Commission ‘may not regulate…retail sales of 
electricity’” and “‘no matter how direct, or dramatic’ a proposal’s impact on wholesale rates, the 
Commission still may not regulate retail electricity sales.”14  Historically, FERC has deferred to 
the states on large load interconnections, viewing them as part of the local distribution system 
 
11  Certification of New Interstate Natural Gas Facilities, Secretary of Energy’s Direction that the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission Initiate Rulemaking Procedures and Proposal to Rescind the Draft Updated Certificate 
Policy Statement Pursuant to the Secretary’s Authority Under Section 403 of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act, Docket Nos. PL18-1-000, PL18-1-001 (Aug. 29, 2025) (emphasis in original). 
12  FERC’s jurisdiction over the electric power industry as set forth in Part II of the FPA is limited.  Pursuant to Section 
201, Part II applies only to “the transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce and to the sale of electric 
energy at wholesale in interstate commerce.” 16 U.S.C. § 824(b); see also The Legal Framework of the Federal 
Power Act, available at https://www.congress.gov/crs-
product/IF11411#:~:text=The%20Federal%20Power%20Act%20(FPA,includes%20Part%20IV%20(16%20U.S.C. 
13  16 U.S.C. § 824(b).   
14  See Tri-State Generation and Transmission Association, Inc., 193 FERC ¶ 61,070 at P 47 (2025) (“Tri-State”) 
(citing FERC v. Elec. Power Supply Ass’n, 577 U.S. 260, 265, 267 (2016) (internal citations omitted)); see also New 
York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1, 17, 23 (2002). 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
5 
 
and related to end-user retail sales, even if the load is large.15  Individual utilities are responsible 
for such interconnections, typically under the oversight of state utility regulators under the FPA.  
While the DOE asserts that its proposal “does not impinge on States’ authority over retail 
electricity sales,”16 in effect, if the Commission were to assert exclusive jurisdiction over the 
interconnection of large load end-use retail customers to the transmission system, it would be 
exercising federal jurisdiction over retail delivery service, which has historically been the role of 
the states. 
NESCOE acknowledges the importance of the policy priorities expressed by the DOE 
Letter and agrees that ensuring efficient, timely, and non-discriminatory interconnection of large 
loads requires prompt and thoughtful consideration by regulators.17  However, FERC must still 
act within its Congressionally-conferred authority.  Despite disclaiming any intent to regulate 
 
15  See Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, An Overview of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and 
Federal Regulation of Public Utilities (June 2018), at 14, available at https://www.ferc.gov/sites/default/files/2020-
07/ferc101.pdf .  In this overview, FERC explains what is not within FERC’s public utility-related statutory 
authority, noting that local distribution is an FPA analysis and not purely engineering-focused.  The overview 
further explains that in the context of Order No. 888, FERC adopted a so-called “7-factor” test: (1) local distribution 
facilities are normally close in proximity to retail customers; (2) local distribution facilities are primarily radial in 
character; (3) power flows into local distribution systems; it rarely, if ever, flows out; (4) when power enters a local 
distribution system, it is not re-consigned or transported on to some other market; (5) power entering a local 
distribution system is consumed in a comparatively restricted geographical area; (6) meters are based at the 
transmission/local distribution interface to measure flows into the local distribution system; (7) local distribution 
systems will be of reduced voltage; see also FERC Order No. 2222 Explainer: Facilitating Participation in 
Electricity Markets by Distributed Energy Resources, available at https://www.ferc.gov/ferc-order-no-2222-
explainer-facilitating-participation-electricity-markets-distributed-
energy#:~:text=What%20are%20wholesale%20sales%20of,to%20a%20utility)%20for%20resale (explaining that 
retail sales are sales to an end-use customer while wholesale sales are sales for resale.) 
16  Proposed ANOPR at 9. 
17  See National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners, Resolution Urging the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission to Preserve and Affirm State Retail Regulatory Jurisdiction in its Large Load Interconnection 
Proceeding (Nov. 11, 2025) (“NARUC Resolution”), available at https://pubs.naruc.org/pub/2C526A94-D533-
BE0A-336A-
178A366C7A91?_gl=1*1bwrrfg*_ga*MTkzNzg4MDI0OC4xNzYyMTkwNzQw*_ga_QLH1N3Q1NF*czE3NjMz
MDY3MTEkbzUkZzEkdDE3NjMzMDY4MDAkajQwJGwwJGgw.  

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
6 
 
retail sales, the ANOPR, as proposed, encroaches on state authority by limiting the states’ ability 
to set rates and to oversee retail contract approvals and retail service.  NESCOE recognizes that 
interstate transmission facilities are FERC-jurisdictional, and thus large load customers 
interconnecting directly to these facilities may present the opportunity for cooperative federalism 
between state regulators and the Commission.  However, as currently formulated, the proposed 
ANOPR would assert authority over the interconnection of large loads such as data centers with 
little to no role for the states, exceeding the statutory jurisdiction of the states under the FPA as 
traditionally recognized by the Commission.  
2. The Proposed ANOPR Departs Significantly from FERC’s Historical 
Deference to State Jurisdiction on Matters of Retail Rate Regulation.  
 
 
As the DOE Letter recognizes, historically, the Commission has not exerted jurisdiction 
over load interconnections.18  Indeed, the proposed ANOPR is hardly the first instance in which 
the Commission has considered the issue of jurisdiction over retail rates.  For example, in its 
landmark Order No. 888,19 FERC mandated open access transmission systems to promote 
competition in wholesale markets but explicitly declined to assert jurisdiction over the 
transmission component of bundled retail sales.  The U.S. Supreme Court subsequently affirmed 
FERC’s decision not to assert jurisdiction over bundled retail sales, preserving the traditional 
state authority over bundled retail transmissions.20  In Order No. 2003, FERC found that the FPA 
reserves jurisdiction over local distribution facilities and retail sales to the states, concluding that 
 
18  DOE Letter at 1.  
19  Promoting Wholesale Competition Through Open Access Non-Discriminatory Transmission Servs. By Pub. Utils.; 
Recovery of Stranded Costs by Pub. Utils. & Transmitting Utils., Order No. 888, FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,036 
(1996) (cross-referenced at 75 FERC ¶).  
20  See New York, 535 U.S. at 28. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
7 
 
“where facilities have a dual use, i.e., the facilities are used for both wholesale sales and retail 
sales, the Final Rule applies to interconnection to these facilities only for the purpose of making 
sales of electric energy for resale in interstate commerce.”21  In other words, its authority to 
regulate was limited to wholesale transactions and thus it did not have the authority to directly 
regulate all uses of the facility “because the regulation of ‘local distribution’ of electricity to end 
users is reserved to the States.”22  In late 2024, the Commission held a commissioner-led 
technical conference that explored a variety of complex regulatory and technical issues related to 
the co-location of large loads, including jurisdictional boundaries.23  And, finally, in a recent 
ruling, the Commission rejected a large load tariff proposed by Tri-State Generation and 
Transmission Association, finding that it intruded on retail rate regulation, which falls under 
state jurisdiction and is outside of FERC’s authority.24 
 
While it had the opportunity, FERC did not claim jurisdiction from the states over 
matters involving the regulation of retail rates in any of these proceedings.  Rather, FERC’s 
actions during these recent opportunities are consistent with its longstanding history of deference 
to the states in matters of retail rate regulation, as well as its statutory command to leave 
regulation of retail rates to the states.  Viewed in that light, the ANOPR as proposed encroaches 
on the states’ historical retail regulatory authority under FERC precedent and the FPA.  Such a 
departure from FERC’s historical deference to the states is likely to introduce potential 
 
21  Standardization of Generator Interconnection Agreements and Procedures, Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103 at 
P 804, n.129 (2003) (emphasis in original). 
22  Id. 
23  See generally Large Loads Co-Located at Generating Facilities, Docket No. AD24-11.   
24  See Tri-State, at PP 45-49. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
8 
 
confusion, unintended customer consequences, and/or legal uncertainty where none currently 
exists.   
3. The DOE Letter Fails to Provide Legal Precedent That Would Justify Its 
View on FERC’s Jurisdiction. 
 
 
The DOE Letter recognizes that, historically, the Commission has not exerted jurisdiction 
over load interconnections and also appears to recognize that the Commission’s authorities are 
limited to those conferred upon it by Congress in the FPA.25  The DOE Letter, however, then 
goes on to assert that, “the interconnection of large loads directly to the interstate transmission 
system to access the transmission system and the electricity transmitted over it falls squarely 
within the Commission’s jurisdiction.”26  The DOE Letter itself identifies no legal support for 
FERC’s authority to change its approach to load interconnections.   
The proposed ANOPR similarly provides scant legal support for DOE’s view on FERC’s 
jurisdiction over large load interconnections.  In Section B, entitled “Commission’s Jurisdiction,” 
the proposed ANOPR recites portions of FPA section 201(b), but does not explain how the 
statute confers jurisdiction over large loads to the Commission as opposed to the states.27   
The proposed ANOPR’s “Legal Authority” section similarly lacks compelling legal 
authority or reasoning that would warrant a departure from Commission precedent or a different 
interpretation of federal versus state jurisdiction under the FPA.28  This section offers “four legal 
justifications for the Commission’s jurisdiction” over large load interconnections, none of which 
 
25  DOE Letter at 1. 
26  Id.   
27  Proposed ANOPR at 2–3.   
28  Id. at 9–10. 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
9 
 
offer sufficient legal analysis to justify FERC’s encroachment on states’ authority to regulate 
retail electricity sales.29  Likewise, the proposed ANOPR provides no evidence or examples 
demonstrating that current state- or utility-administered interconnection processes are 
discriminatory or inadequate. 
Finally, the proposed ANOPR improperly relies on language in a dissenting opinion for 
its proposal that FERC take the unprecedented step of encroaching on what has traditionally been 
state-regulatory jurisdiction.30  In the “Open Access Transmission Service” section, the proposed 
ANOPR offers some background on FERC’s Order No. 888, in which FERC declined to extend 
its unbundling requirement to the transmission component of bundled retail sales.31  The 
proposed ANOPR then summarizes the United States Supreme Court ruling that affirmed Order 
No. 888, including its affirmation of FERC’s decision not to assert jurisdiction over bundled 
retail rates.32  The proposed ANOPR seems to suggest that the Commission should rely on 
language from a dissent in that case as grounds to assert jurisdiction over large load 
interconnections.33  However, dissenting opinions do not represent binding legal authority, and 
thus the Commission should not rely on this language to assert jurisdiction that Congress has not 
expressly conferred upon it by statute.   
 
29  Id. 
30  Id. at 5. 
31  Id. at 3. 
32  Id. at 4.   
33  Id. at 5. 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
10 
 
4. The Commission Does Not Have the Clear Congressional Authorization 
Required to Assert Jurisdiction Over Large Load Interconnections Under 
the Major Questions Doctrine. 
 
In a recent case, the Supreme Court held that administrative agencies must point to “clear 
congressional authorization” before issuing regulations of “economic and political 
significance.”34  This is known as the major questions doctrine.  When an agency tries to 
implement a major regulation, courts must presume it lacks the power to do so.35  Broad or vague 
language cannot overcome that presumption; an agency must instead point to clear and specific 
permission from Congress.36  As the DOE Letter points out, the ANOPR’s aims of revitalizing 
domestic manufacturing and driving American AI innovation will require “unprecedented and 
extraordinary quantities of electricity and substantial investment in the Nation’s interstate 
transmission system.”37  The implementation of rules that involve such unprecedented quantities 
of energy and substantial investment would undoubtedly be considered of “economic and 
political significance” and as such would trigger the major questions doctrine.   
In order to proceed with the ANOPR as proposed, per the major questions doctrine, 
FERC is required to point to clear and specific permission from Congress that would allow it to 
assert jurisdiction over large load interconnection.  As noted above, the FPA clearly divides 
regulatory authority between FERC and state agencies, with FERC having authority over the 
interstate wholesale sale and transmission of electricity while the states regulate retail sales and 
local distribution.  Nowhere does the DOE Letter explain how the FPA provides clear statutory 
 
34  West Virginia v. EPA, 142 S. Ct. 2587, 2609 (2022). 
35  Id. at 2614. 
36  Id. 
37  DOE Letter at 2. 

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
11 
 
authority to FERC to regulate end user customers with large loads or otherwise point to clear and 
specific permission from Congress that would allow it to implement such a major regulation of 
economic and political significance.  Therefore, because Congress did not grant FERC such clear 
permission to assert jurisdiction, the Commission should decline to proceed with the ANOPR as 
proposed.   
B. 
If the Commission Proceeds with Rulemaking Processes, It Should 
Collaborate Closely with States, RTOs, and Stakeholders and Provide 
Sufficient Time to Do So.   
1. The Commission Cannot Effectively Regulate Large Interconnection 
Customers Without Meaningful Collaboration with States and 
Stakeholders.    
 
As explained in detail above, supra Section II.A, the FPA leaves jurisdiction over large 
load interconnections to the states.38  However, if the Commission does wish to pursue a 
rulemaking on large load interconnection processes, the Commission should first engage in a 
collaborative process with states, RTOs, and stakeholders.  As a start, NESCOE recommends 
that the Commission convene one or more technical conferences to begin a conversation with 
states, RTOs, and stakeholders on state and regional differences and challenges, state and 
regional efforts to regulate large load interconnection to date, and possible opportunities for 
collaboration between state actors and the Commission.  This approach would facilitate 
cooperative federalism between the states and the federal government, recognizing the states’ 
jurisdiction over retail customers as recognized by the FPA.  This approach would also allow the 
Commission to revise the proposed ANOPR and thereby initiate a stronger, more sophisticated, 
 
38  16 U.S.C. § 824(b). 

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
12 
 
and more legally durable rulemaking that accounts for the significant differences between states 
and regions.     
By contrast, the ANOPR, as currently proposed, takes a cookie-cutter approach that could 
result in unintended impacts due to differences between states and regions.  Of particular note, 
the rapid interconnection of large loads has already and will continue to result in immediate—
and potentially acute—reliability concerns where adequate transmission and supply do not exist 
to support the addition of large loads.  Data center load is growing much faster in some regions 
and states than in others.39  Standards and processes that some regions can make work might 
drive already over-subscribed regions past the breaking point and cause significant harm to 
reliability.  A collaborative approach, such as the one that NESCOE suggests if the Commission 
elects to regulate in this area, would allow for the Commission to account for these differences 
between regions and design a rule that does not jeopardize reliability in already constrained 
regions and can also better account for possible opportunities in regions that are not.   
The Commission should also use a collaborative process to better understand, account 
for, and potentially draw from, existing state regulation of large load interconnection 
customers—otherwise, it risks creating significant unintended consequences.  Some states have 
taken significant steps to regulate large load interconnection customers.  As NARUC states in its 
recent resolution, “at least 20 states have approved or have pending large load tariffs or similar 
measures, which may include financial commitments, curtailment protocols, and minimum 
 
39  Although no area of the country is immune to the challenges posed by the rapid increase in large load 
interconnections, New England has very low levels of data center interconnection compared to many other areas of 
the country.  Indeed, the distribution of large loads and their projected growth over the next ten years varies widely 
by region.  See NERC, 2024 Long-Term Reliability Assessment (Dec. 2024), at 38, available at 
https://www.nerc.com/pa/RAPA/ra/Reliability%20Assessments%20DL/NERC_Long%20Term%20Reliability%20
Assessment_2024.pdf; see also https://sepapower.org/large-load-tariffs-database/.  

--- PAGE 13 ---
 
13 
 
contract terms to allow for the rapid interconnection of large loads without compromising grid 
reliability or unduly burdening existing retail customers….”40  These state tariffs use a variety of 
mechanisms to mitigate the impact of large loads on system reliability and customer costs, such 
as requirements to build onsite generation or contractual commitments to cover infrastructure 
costs that would otherwise be socialized across all utility customers.  The ANOPR, as proposed, 
would create confusion as to the effect of these efforts and could compromise reliability, disrupt 
existing projects, create stranded costs for customers, and invite otherwise unnecessary legal 
challenges.  A more reasonable approach would be for the Commission to work with states and 
stakeholders to create a process grounded in cooperative federalism that would fully assess the 
existing landscape of state regulation.  Such a process would allow for consideration of how a 
proposed rule would interact with, and potentially borrow from, existing state regulation on the 
issue and identify where federal action could best support current and future state efforts to 
regulate in this area.  This process could avoid the unintended consequences that a one-size-fits-
all approach would create.    
For these reasons, NESCOE respectfully requests that the Commission, if it does decide 
to proceed with a rulemaking, collaborate with states, RTOs, and stakeholders to better account 
for state and regional differences and existing state regulation before issuing a final rule.   
 
40  See NARUC Resolution at 7.   

--- PAGE 14 ---
 
14 
 
2. If FERC Proceeds with a Rulemaking Process, It Should Provide 
Stakeholders with Sufficient Time and Opportunity to Offer Meaningful 
Input. 
As argued above, large load interconnection is a complicated issue that many states are 
already exerting jurisdiction over, and the Commission cannot effectively regulate in this area 
without first engaging in significant collaboration with the states, RTOs, and other stakeholders.  
The processes needed to initiate a rulemaking that does not lead to unintended consequences or 
undermine the legal durability of the final rule will necessarily take time.  In addition, the 
Commission must follow the standards for rulemaking as set forth in the Administrative 
Procedure Act41 and its own rulemaking guidance42 and thereby provide ample opportunity for 
meaningful and robust stakeholder input.  By contrast, the DOE Letter requests that the 
Commission take “final action” no later than April 30, 2026, which is less than six months from 
now.43  The issues at play are many and complicated and therefore require the reasoned, well-
informed rulemaking process that FERC typically employs.  Section 403 of the FPA only 
requires that the Commission abide by “such reasonable time limits” requested by the DOE 
Secretary.44  Based on the timeframes discussed below regarding similarly complex rulemakings, 
issuance of a final rule by FERC within the next six months as DOE requests is not reasonable.  
The proposed ANOPR references both Order No. 2023 and Order No. 1920.45  Both of 
these rulemaking proceedings involved complex, controversial issues that are comparable to the 
 
41  5 U.S.C. §§ 551-559. 
42  See https://www.ferc.gov/OPP/rulemaking-explainer#.  
43  DOE Letter at 2. 
44    42 U.S.C. § 7173(b). 
45  Proposed ANOPR at 5, 8.   

--- PAGE 15 ---
 
15 
 
issues at play in the proposed ANOPR.  The Order No. 2023 rulemaking process took 
approximately 13 months from the issuance of a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in June 2022 to 
a final rule issued on July 28, 2023.  The rulemaking process for FERC Order No. 1920 took 
nearly three years from the issuance of an ANOPR in July 2021 until a final rule was issued on 
May 13, 2024, not including orders addressing requests for clarification and rehearing.   
The Commission understands how complex the issues involved in large load 
interconnection are and the amount of time that the Commission has previously deemed 
necessary to ensure that stakeholders have the opportunity to voice their opinions on any 
proposed FERC rulemakings.  If the Commission moves forward with a rulemaking process, it 
should not rush the process and should instead provide stakeholders with meaningful 
opportunities to share well-constructed, well-informed feedback with the Commission.   
III. 
CONCLUSION 
NESCOE respectfully requests that the Commission consider these comments in 
determining whether to take further action on the proposed ANOPR.   
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
On behalf of NESCOE: 
 
/s/ Shannon Beale 
 
 
Shannon Beale 
Assistant General Counsel 
New England States Committee on Electricity 
P.O. Box 322 
Osterville, MA 02655 
Tel: (617) 400-9000 
Email:  shannonbeale@nescoe.com    
 
/s/ Nathan Forster 
 
 
Nathan Forster 

--- PAGE 16 ---
 
16 
 
General Counsel 
New England States Committee on Electricity 
P.O. Box 322 
Osterville, MA 02655 
Tel: (617) 431-0462 
Email:  nathanforster@nescoe.com    
 
Attorneys for the New England States Committee  
on Electricity 
 
On behalf of NECPUC: 
 
By:  /s/ Philip L. Bartlett II_____ 
       
 
 
 
 
Philip L. Bartlett II 
President of NECPUC 
Chair of the Maine Public Utilities Commission  
18 State House Station 
Augusta, ME 04333  
 
 
Date:  November 21, 2025  
