--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
 
1 
 
202.383.2500    |    1299 Pennsylvania Ave. NW, 13th Fl., Washington, DC 20004   |   www.cleanpower.org 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
) 
Ensuring the Timely and Orderly  
) 
 Interconnection of Large Loads 
 
) 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COMMENTS OF THE AMERICAN CLEAN POWER ASSOCIATION  
ON PROPOSED ADVANCE NOTICE OF PROPOSED RULEMAKING 
 
The American Clean Power Association (“ACP”)1 appreciates the opportunity to 
provide comments on the U.S. Department of Energy’s proposed Advance Notice of 
Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) submitted to the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission (“Commission)2 on October 23.   Ensuring the timely, reliable, and cost-
effective interconnection of large loads – along with the supply-side resources that will 
provide power to them – is an issue of utmost importance.  ACP appreciates the 
Administration’s leadership in initiating this important and timely dialogue on large-load 
interconnection, recognizing the urgency of aligning policy with rapidly evolving system 
needs.  
The ANOPR, issued on October 27, 2025, proposes multiple principles to 
advance timely interconnections of large loads.  Addressing these issues will require 
record development (including jurisdictional determinations) before the Commission 
 
1 The American Clean Power Association (ACP) is the leading voice of today’s multi-tech clean energy 
industry, representing energy storage, wind, utility-scale solar, clean hydrogen, and transmission 
companies. ACP is committed to meeting America’s energy and national security goals and building our 
economy with fast-growing, low-cost, and reliable domestic power.  The views and opinions expressed in 
this filing do not necessarily reflect the official position of each individual member of ACP. 
2 Ensuring the Timely and Orderly Interconnection of Large Loads, RM26-4 (2025) (“ Proposed Large 
Load ANOPR” or “Proposed ANOPR”). 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
 
 
2 
 
202.383.2500    |    1299 Pennsylvania Ave. NW, 13th Fl., Washington, DC 20004   |   www.cleanpower.org 
takes final action.  ACP submits these comments to assist the Commission as it moves 
forward with a rulemaking on these issues, and will continue to work – along with its 
member companies – to support Commission actions that that meaningfully improve and 
accelerate the interconnection of large loads, alongside robust growth of new supply-side 
resources to meet growing demand. 
 
I. 
COMMENTS 
 
A. The Commission Should Respect Principles of Cooperative Federalism, and 
Avoid Disruption of Existing and Effective Load Interconnection Processes  
 
In considering whether to act upon load interconnection processes, the 
Commission should keep core federalism principles at the forefront of its decision-
making.  Load interconnection has historically been a state-jurisdictional issue, and any 
Federal action should be measured and carefully considered.  As noted in the ANOPR, 
the Commission would need to consider several threshold issues about whether, and if so 
where, to assert federal jurisdiction over large load interconnection.  Principle 1 (seeking 
to limit jurisdiction to transmission-level interconnection only, utilizing the 
Commission’s longstanding seven-factor test)3 and Principle 2 (proposing a 20MW 
threshold, as the Commission has adopted for Large Generator Interconnection 
Procedures and Agreements)4 represent potential methods of delineating jurisdiction, 
although each poses some concerns (as discussed below).  ACP recommends that the 
Commission consider a measured approach that will respect state authority, limit 
unnecessary jurisdictional fights over smaller load interconnection, and allow for 
 
3 ANOPR at P18. 
4 ANOPR at P19. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
 
 
3 
 
202.383.2500    |    1299 Pennsylvania Ave. NW, 13th Fl., Washington, DC 20004   |   www.cleanpower.org 
appropriate variation at state and regional levels, while ensuring timely and reliable 
interconnection of large loads and supply resources. 
One pathway that the Commission should consider would be a state-driven 
approach, which would seek to minimize disruption of the multiple large load projects 
under development and seeking to interconnect today.  Under such an approach, the 
Commission would set clear requirements for consistent, timely, and transparent load and 
hybrid interconnection procedures.  Federal action might be triggered if and when 
transmission providers or state processes could not meet these requirements or timetables.  
In addition, the Commission should consider establishing a formal process for 
derogations or exceptions from any standards or requirements it adopts.  This would 
allow flexibility in exceptional cases – particularly where strict compliance might 
jeopardize local reliability or impose disproportionate costs – while maintaining overall 
consistency and transparency. This could help to balance the ANOPR’s stated goal of 
improved certainty while avoiding disruption of the multiple large load interconnection 
requests underway today. 
Further, the proposed 20 MW load threshold (ANOPR Principle 2) may be 
unrealistically low for the types of large loads that drive transmission needs, and could 
inadvertently increase uncertainty by sweeping an unnecessarily high number of load 
interconnection requests into a new process Federal jurisdiction.  Projects such as large 
data centers, electrified manufacturing plants, and large-scale electrified transportation 
hubs often require hundreds of megawatts.  By contrast, a 20MW standalone threshold 
would capture many mid-sized projects that may pose little system risk, and in many 
cases may have a predictable pathway to interconnection under current rules. Any 
jurisdictional changes could jeopardize interconnection requests that are in process, and 
inadvertently increase interconnection delays.  Additionally, ACP notes that a challenge 
can occur when multiple 20-100 MW mid-sized projects aggregate to a single point of 
grid connection, creating a scenario that resembles a large load addition. To address this 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
 
 
4 
 
202.383.2500    |    1299 Pennsylvania Ave. NW, 13th Fl., Washington, DC 20004   |   www.cleanpower.org 
challenge while respecting the differentiation between large loads (100 MW+) and mid-
sized loads (20-100 MW), ACP recommends that the Commission utilize the record 
developed in this proceeding to establish a load interconnection threshold significantly 
higher than 20MW, while also taking note of multiple load interconnections at the same 
grid connection point that could be individually lower but collectively higher than the 
threshold level.  Additionally, ACP notes that in many cases, larger loads may already be 
planning to connect to the transmission system – which may also help to avert potential 
jurisdictional clashes. 
Any final action would need to be legally defensible and practically 
implementable approach.  If a final action adds uncertainty to large load interconnection 
(such as an unclear transition period), the net result could be an interconnection process 
that is more difficult to manage.  Further, several regions are already moving forward 
with their own, stakeholder-led approaches to large load interconnection, including 
pairing load and generation.5  The Commission should ensure that any action in this 
proceeding supports regional flexibility, and does not deter or supplant proactive regional 
efforts – as broad stakeholder support can often help to lead to a more durable solution.  
Finally, ACP encourages the Commission to take a practical approach to implementing 
any final rule, including a clear transition period, to support efficient and reliable 
interconnections of large loads. 
 
 
 
5 See, e.g. Southwest Power Pool, Submission of Tariff Revisions to Add the High Impact Large Load 
Processes and High Impact Large Load Generation Assessment, Docket No. ER26-247 at 5, 
(2025)(proposing “the [High Impact Large Load Generation Assessment] process to facilitate the prompt 
interconnection of generating resources that are specifically identified for and limited to serving a [High 
Impact Large Load, at the request of the interconnection customer.”); PJM Interconnection, Critical Issue 
Fast Path – Large Load Additions (2025) https://www.pjm.com/committees-and-groups/cifp-lla.  

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
 
 
5 
 
202.383.2500    |    1299 Pennsylvania Ave. NW, 13th Fl., Washington, DC 20004   |   www.cleanpower.org 
B. Any Action on Large Load Interconnection Should be Technology-Neutral and 
Respect Customer Choice 
 
ACP appreciates the ANOPR’s focus on ensuring that large loads and generating 
facilities can be evaluated jointly, and under predictable and fair rules.  The ANOPR puts 
forward several principles regarding how large loads should be studied.  Principle 3 
recommends studying load together with affiliated generating facilities, to the extent 
practical;6 Principle 4 urges adoption of standardized deposits, readiness requirements, 
and withdrawal penalties;7 Principle 5 recommends that hybrid facilities be studied based 
upon the injection and/or withdrawal rights requested.8  Each of these principles raise key 
questions that need to be resolved to advance load-generation hybrids quickly. 
Additionally, there may be relevant lessons from FERC’s development of pro forma 
generator interconnection queue procedures and evolution of these processes across more 
than 40 transmission providers.  In general, ACP supports regions having a clear method 
in place to study load-generation pairings in a coordinated fashion, with standard process 
improvements and readiness requirements, deposits, and withdrawal penalties that take 
into account best practices from the generator interconnection queue.   
ACP also urges the Commission to ensure that any implementation of these 
principles is both technology- and fuel-neutral, and allows load customers to bring their 
own supply resources of choice, consistent with applicable laws and requirements.  The 
load interconnection reforms under consideration in this proceeding mesh well with long-
standing, legally durable Federal Power Act principles of preventing undue 
discrimination and preference.  In developing large load interconnection rules, the 
 
6 ANOPR at P20. 
7 ANOPR at P21. 
8 ANOPR at P22. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
 
 
6 
 
202.383.2500    |    1299 Pennsylvania Ave. NW, 13th Fl., Washington, DC 20004   |   www.cleanpower.org 
Commission should ensure that there is no undue discrimination among supply resources 
that accompany interconnection requests for hybrid loads.  Large load interconnection 
customers will have a range of circumstances – including their willingness to adjust to 
curtailment, their desired timeline, and the particular circumstances on the grid adjacent 
to the point of interconnection; each of these circumstances may cause load 
interconnection customers to prefer different types of supply resources.  The Commission 
should ensure that any action is sufficiently broad to accommodate all types of load, 
generation, and storage that seek to interconnect in tandem, and should ensure that hybrid 
loads are utilizing appropriate protection schemes to support grid reliability.  Relatedly, 
loads should be expressly allowed to bring their own supply resources with them, 
including energy storage.   
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
 
 
7 
 
202.383.2500    |    1299 Pennsylvania Ave. NW, 13th Fl., Washington, DC 20004   |   www.cleanpower.org 
II. 
CONCLUSION 
The ANOPR raises multiple timely and critical issues for the Commission to 
consider, as it strives to reliably, predictably, and affordably assure that large loads can 
interconnect to the grid, along with the supply resources that will provide power to them.  
ACP and its member companies look forward to assisting the Commission in arriving at 
durable and effective solutions that will meet these shared goals. 
 
Respectfully submitted,  
 
  
Gabe Tabak, Assistant General Counsel  
Carrie Zalewski, Vice President, Markets and 
Transmission  
American Clean Power Association  
1299 Pennsylvania Ave. NW, 13th Fl. 
Washington, D.C. 20004 
(202) 383-2500  
gtabak@cleanpower.org  
czalewski@cleanpower.org  
 
 
November 21, 2025 
