--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
 
) 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the  
) 
Interstate Transmission System 
) 
 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
) 
 
) 
 
 
REPLY COMMENTS OF VISTRA CORP.  
 
Vistra Corp. (“Vistra”) hereby respectfully submits these reply comments concerning the 
Secretary of Energy’s letter regarding the interconnection of large loads and the accompanying 
Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking proposal (“DOE ANOPR Proposal”) in the above-
captioned proceeding.1   
I. 
Introduction   
While the extensive record of this proceeding reflects a wide range of views, there is 
general agreement on two fundamental issues.  First, winning the AI race will require significant 
new digital infrastructure and energy infrastructure to generate and deliver power.2  Second, that 
infrastructure must be developed in the most efficient way possible.3  
The need for reform is clear and urgent.  Regulatory uncertainty is stymying data center 
development and the Commission’s inaction in its most significant proceedings involving data 
————————————————— 
1 Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Proposed Advanced Notice of 
Proposed Rulemaking, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (filed Oct. 23, 2025) (“DOE ANOPR Proposal”). 
2 See Amazon Comments at 1; Entergy Comments at 2-3; Meta Comments at 1; Microsoft Comments 
at 1, 5; OpenAI Comments at 1; SEIA Comments at 2; Talen Comments at 2. 
3 See AEP Comments at 4; Constellation Comments at 6; Microsoft Comments at 2; Vantage Data 
Centers Comments at 2.  

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
 
 
2 
center development is a major reason why.4  The vast majority of commenters agree that the status 
quo is insufficient to build the infrastructure necessary to meet the moment.5  That is simply not 
an acceptable outcome.   
To win the AI race, the United States needs to maximize the use of the infrastructure that 
we already have, in the short term, while building out a more robust electric grid in the medium-
to-long term.  To maximize use of existing infrastructure, the Commission must prioritize the 
issues on which it can make the most immediate and meaningful progress.  Accordingly, Vistra 
reiterates that the Commission should pursue the following path: 
 First, the Commission should issue—as soon as possible—unequivocal determinations 
(either in Docket No. EL25-49 et al., other pending docket(s), or in this docket) that 
provide immediate clarity on how existing rules should be applied while the 
Commission works to implement reforms in this proceeding.  Doing so will help ensure 
that this important proceeding does not become a roadblock to concluding the 
commercial arrangements needed to unlock investment.  In particular, the Commission 
should make clear: 
 
 The co-location of large loads with existing generation resources is permissible 
under existing rules, including generator modification rules,6 and the 
“necessary study” process.7 
 Cost causation principles require that the parties to such an arrangement fund 
any necessary network upgrades, and the transmission service that facilitates 
————————————————— 
4 See Constellation Comments at 3-5; Data Center Coalition Comments at 5-6; PJM Comments at 8; 
PPL Comments at 16; PSEG Comments at 13; Talen Energy Comments at 2. 
5 See AEP Comments at 2; Data Center Coalition Comments at 4 (“The status quo is not serving the 
nation’s economic or reliability needs.”); Eolian Comments at 13; NYISO Comments at 8 n.19; Vantage 
Data Centers Comments at 7 (“The industry needs a more efficient regulatory framework to manage the 
challenges posed by large-load interconnection.”). 
6 The pro forma LGIA contains provisions regarding modifications to existing generator 
interconnections.  See pro forma LGIA § 5.19.  Many RTO tariffs incorporate these provisions.  See, e.g.,  
Midcontinent Independent Sys. Operator, FERC Electric Tariff, attach. X (Generator Interconnection 
Procedures), app. 6 (Generator Interconnection Agreement) (108.0.0), § 5.19. 
7 The necessary study process is described in PJM’s Tariff.  We use the phrase “necessary study” to 
refer specifically to that existing PJM process.  

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
 
 
3 
these arrangements be determined by actual use of the transmission system 
based on their net load.   
 Transmission providers must continue to apply the rate on file and permit such 
arrangements to move forward under existing rules.  The Commission should 
ensure that studies begun under a particular set of rules do not need to be 
restarted should those rules change or new rules be adopted.   
 Commercial agreements entered into under rules in effect now will not be 
upended by reforms adopted in the future.   
 Transmission-level load interconnections are Commission-jurisdictional (yet, 
as described below, the states retain significant authority over large loads, 
including over the terms of retail service). 
 
 Second, the Commission should establish nationwide rules governing interconnection 
arrangements involving new generation resources and co-located loads.8  Unlike 
configurations in which co-located load is added to an existing generator’s 
interconnection, there are currently no rules governing the interconnection of new co-
located generation and load that seek to interconnect to the transmission system.  Thus, 
new pro forma tariff language will be necessary to effectuate the coordinated study of 
new load co-located with new generation.  That should be the first set of reforms the 
Commission proposes in this rulemaking proceeding.  This is the appropriate place to 
start the reform effort because (1) the Commission has a long history of regulating 
generator interconnection, and (2) as explained in the DOE ANOPR Proposal, co-
locating load and generation facilitates efficient siting and can minimize the need for 
costly network upgrades.9   
 
 Eventually, it may be appropriate for that new process to also address the co-
location of new loads with existing generation resources.  To explore this 
possibility, the Commission should consider whether to retain its existing 
generating facility modification rules (and continue applying those rules to co-
location of new loads with existing generation) or to apply the new rules 
developed in this proceeding to co-location with existing generation.10 
 
————————————————— 
8 While the DOE ANOPR Proposal uses the term “hybrid facility” to refer to loads that share a point of 
interconnection with a generation facility, the Commission has used the term “hybrid” to describe 
generators with two generating technologies.  Compare DOE ANOPR Proposal at P 9, with FERC, Hybrid 
Resources White Paper 3-5 (May 2021), https://www.ferc.gov/sites/default/files/2021-05/white-paper-
hybrid-resources.pdf.  To the extent that the Commission creates tariff language governing configurations 
in which a load shares a point of interconnection with a generation facility, we recommend the Commission 
create a new and unambiguous term to describe such arrangements.  
9 DOE ANOPR Proposal at P 20. 
10 However, as noted above, studies begun under existing rules should not be restarted should those 
rules change, or new rules be adopted. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
 
 
4 
 Third, the Commission should exercise its jurisdiction to establish new transmission-
level load interconnection procedures for loads that are not co-located with generation 
resources—i.e., loads that do not share a point of interconnection with a generator.  
Standalone load interconnections are no less important than other load 
interconnections, but the associated rules may be more time consuming to develop.  
The Commission could propose those reforms in this rulemaking docket or establish a 
separate docket for that purpose, but in any event those reforms should not hold up the 
above reforms related to co-location.  As described below, this step is fully consistent 
with the Commission’s jurisdiction over transmission.  This represents a new 
application of the Commission’s jurisdiction and the area where it has the least 
familiarity and experience.  As such, Vistra believes it would behoove the Commission 
to take a more measured approach here and develop the record necessary to ensure that 
its reforms fully realize the goals and transformative potential of Secretary Wright’s 
proposal.   
 
The balance of these comments provides more detail on how the Commission should move 
forward on co-location (including co-location involving existing generation and co-location 
involving new generation) and standalone transmission-level load interconnection.   
II. 
Co-Location 
A wide range of commenters across all segments of the industry agree that the co-location 
of loads and generation is one of the most promising vehicles to get the most out of existing 
infrastructure.11  Regardless of the configuration, co-location can minimize the system impacts of 
new large loads and reduce the need for costly network upgrades.12  In the short term, co-location 
therefore represents one of the best ways to build the digital infrastructure needed to win the AI 
race.  As discussed below, while all types of co-location should be facilitated and incentivized, the 
————————————————— 
11 See Amazon Comments at 6-7; America’s Power Comments at 2-3, 4-5; CEBA Comments at 13-17; 
Constellation Comments at 38; Illinois AG Comments at 8; Joint Consumer Advocates Comments at 18; 
Maryland PSC Comments at 6-7; Meta Comments at 5; Microsoft Comments at 8-9; OMS Comments at 
13; PPL Companies Comments at 17; PSEG Comments at 14. 
12 See Amazon Comments at 7; Constellation Comments at 14-15; PSEG Comments at 14. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
 
 
5 
procedures by which the Commission can do so will vary depending on whether the co-location 
arrangement involves an existing generator or a new generator. 
A. Types of Co-location  
1. Co-location with Existing Generation 
Co-location of new loads with existing generation resources is the lowest hanging fruit for 
Commission action because both the infrastructure and the rules to facilitate the use thereof already 
exist.  Further, there is a fully briefed Commission docket, with an extensive record, in which the 
Commission can act to facilitate these arrangements.  As Vistra has previously explained, the 
Commission should issue unequivocal determinations in Docket No. EL25-49 et al, and/or other 
pending docket(s), to provide immediate clarity on how existing rules should be applied.  While 
the Commission could consider changing those rules in the context of future reforms in this 
proceeding, as discussed below, the Commission must not allow parties that seek to delay new 
large load interconnections to use this important proceeding to freeze the industry and prevent the 
rapid development of digital infrastructure needed to win the AI race.    
The record in this proceeding provides further support for these arrangements.  As multiple 
commenters explain, the technologies required to facilitate the co-location of new loads behind-
the-meter at existing generating facilities are reliable and technically sound.  For instance, CAISO 
explains that “strict, unwavering protections like circuit breakers at their point of interconnection” 
can maintain reliability with “only those network upgrades necessary based on the requested net 
[withdrawal and injection] rights.”13  ENGIE explains that the “[t]echnology to prevent 
————————————————— 
13 CAISO Comments at 8-9. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
 
 
6 
unauthorized flows exists and is currently in use.”14  ODEC similarly notes that its distribution 
cooperative members are already installing similar system protection devices on storage 
facilities.15 
While some commenters appear to limit their support of co-location arrangements only to 
co-located facilities involving new generation,16 such an approach will produce counterproductive 
results because retaining existing generation is critical to resource adequacy.17  The record also 
supports the proposition that the Commission need not create a new resource adequacy study to 
facilitate co-location of new loads with existing generators.  As PSEG explains, such studies are 
not performed even for retiring generators, and adding an evaluation of resource adequacy issues 
for co-located load arrangements would be “unnecessary, inefficient, unduly discriminatory, and 
not the correct legal or practical fit for these arrangements.”18  It would be remarkably inefficient—
and unduly discriminatory—to inadvertently incentivize the retirement of existing generation at 
exactly the wrong moment by creating barriers to the co-location of new loads with existing 
generating facilities. 
2. Co-location with New Generation  
After the Commission clarifies how existing rules should be applied to co-location 
arrangements involving existing generation, the Commission should prioritize reforms to facilitate 
the interconnection of co-location arrangements involving new load and new generation.  The 
————————————————— 
14 ENGIE Comments at 9. 
15 ODEC Comments at 7. 
16 See Maryland PSC Comments at 7-8; Ohio Federal Energy Advocate Comments at 5; Joint Consumer 
Advocates Comments at 18, 27-28. 
17 Constellation Comments at 16-17. 
18 PSEG Comments at 16-17. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
 
 
7 
record reflects broad support for these configurations,19 as they minimize the need for network 
upgrades, minimize line losses, and create efficiencies in equipment, land use, permitting, and 
siting.20   
The record also demonstrates broad support for coordinating the load and generator studies 
for co-located facilities.21  Doing so can facilitate more efficient planning, promote more cost-
effective transmission solutions, and reduce uncertainty for project developers by aligning study 
timelines.22  Some commenters warn that the studies cannot be fully combined, as transmission 
providers need to model contingencies relating to each component of the facility separately.23  
Even if that is true, it does not diminish the significant benefits of coordinating the studies in terms 
of efficiency, transparency, and aligning project milestones.24   
Critically, the Commission can act expeditiously to incentivize and accelerate the 
development of these facilities without protracted litigation.  Even commenters that contest the 
————————————————— 
19 See Advanced Energy United Comments at 12-13; American Transmission Company Comments at 
3; Chevron Comments at 4; Data Center Coalition Comments at 5; Maryland PSC Comments at 6-7; Meta 
Comments at 4-6; Ohio FEA Comments at 5; PPL Companies Comments at 16-18; SEIA Comments at 20-
21; Texas Blockchain Council Comments at 2. 
20 See Data Center Coalition Comments at 5; Maryland PSC Comments at 6-7; Ohio FEA Comments 
at 5; PPL Companies Comments at 17.  
21 See CEBA Comments at 8; DTE Electric Comments at 1-2; Entergy Comments at 5; Joint Consumer 
Advocates Comments at 18; Meta Comments at 5; Microsoft Comments at 8-9; SPP TOs Comments at 5; 
see also Governors Shapiro and Youngkin Comments at 1 (supporting the DOE ANOPR Proposal’s efforts 
to study hybrid facilities more efficiently); ISO-NE Comments at 6 (explaining that ISO-NE already 
employs a coordinated study process); Massachusetts AG Comments at 7 (supporting more efficient siting 
as a form of ratepayer protection).  
22 See CEBA Comments at 8; Entergy Comments at 5; Microsoft Comments at 8-9; see also CAISO 
Comments at 6 (“Providing a single study process for large load, hybrid, and generating facilities may 
simplify many aspects for transmission providers and developers.”). 
23 See Constellation Comments at 13-15; Indicated PJM TOs Comments at 36-37; MISO Comments at 
23; ODEC Comments at 5-6. 
24 See CEBA Comments at 8-9. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
 
 
8 
Commission’s jurisdiction over transmission-level load interconnection acknowledge that the 
Commission has clear jurisdiction over the interconnection of co-located facilities.25  The reason 
is simple:  the Commission has long exercised jurisdiction over generator interconnection, and 
“the Commission does not lose its jurisdiction over the interconnection simply because a load also 
happens to interconnect to the interstate grid at the same point.”26   
In short, there is no reasonable jurisdictional basis to contest the Commission’s ability to 
regulate the interconnection of co-located facilities.  Therefore, the Commission can proceed with 
implementing reforms to facilitate the interconnection of co-located facilities more quickly, while 
it resolves the more complex issues raised in the ANOPR on a slightly longer timeline.  
Constellation raises the valid concern that a process to expedite the coordinated study of 
co-location arrangements involving new generation would be unduly discriminatory against 
existing generation because it would incentivize load to co-locate only with new generation.27  But 
the Commission can design a process that alleviates those concerns.  As noted above, the 
Commission should clarify that existing generator modification rules, including the necessary 
study process, can be used to add co-located load to an existing generator’s point of 
interconnection.  In the context of that clarification, the Commission could indicate that it intends 
to keep those rules in place moving forward and that those rules must provide load interconnection 
on a timeline no longer than the equivalent process to facilitate load co-location with new 
generation.  Alternatively, the Commission could clarify that those rules will continue to apply 
————————————————— 
25 See DTE Electric Comments at 6, 8-11; Pennsylvania PUC Comments at 11. 
26 Constellation Comments at 8-9. 
27 See id. at 14-16. 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
 
 
9 
only for an interim period, but that it intends to adopt a broader co-location framework that will 
eventually replace those existing rules and apply equally to co-location arrangements with new 
and existing generation resources.28  Either approach can avoid undue discrimination provided it 
accommodates co-location configurations in a comparable manner and on a comparable timeline 
regardless of whether they involve new or existing generation.  And either approach would be 
workable as long as it applies only prospectively and does not disrupt existing commercial 
agreements or projects already being studied. 
While some commenters suggest that the Commission divert its resources to address 
resource adequacy issues through other mechanisms outside the scope of this proceeding, like 
nationalizing PJM’s reliability backstop auction,29 Vistra believes that the Commission can 
address those issues by unlocking the potential of co-location.  Many large load developers seek 
to pair their loads with generation, but the lack of clear and coordinated processes to effectuate 
those configurations has stymied that development.30  Facilitating and incentivizing these facilities 
will unleash a flood of private capital to help bolster resource adequacy across the country while 
focusing cost recovery for new generation on the entities that desire it.   
B. Substantive Principles for Co-Location 
Certain substantive principles should apply equally to all types of co-location 
configurations.  The DOE ANOPR Proposal correctly provides that transmission providers should 
————————————————— 
28 If the Commission takes this approach, it is critical that it clarify that it will not unwind studies or 
commercial arrangements entered into under existing rules.   
29 See Talen Comments at 7-9. 
30 See Data Center Coalition Comments at 5-6; Digital Energy Council Comments at 2; Tesla 
Comments at 3; Vantage Data Centers Comments at 5-7. 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
 
 
10 
serve, and charge, co-located facilities based on their actual use of the transmission system, i.e., 
based on their net—not gross—injections and withdrawals.31  As many commenters recognize, 
that approach is both legally required under the Federal Power Act’s cost causation principle and 
the right policy choice because it will incentivize parties to make the most efficient use of the 
transmission system.32   
As CAISO explains, identifying network upgrades for co-located facilities based on their 
net injection and withdrawal rights is beneficial for both ratepayers and developers, avoiding 
unnecessary costs and long construction timelines.33  ISO-NE supports studying co-located 
facilities based on their net injection and withdrawal rights and notes that doing so would be 
reflected in study assumptions and could even reduce the need for certain analyses during the study 
process.34  CAISO further states that providing transmission service based on withdrawal rights 
will “[c]orrectly incentiviz[e] large load developers to right-size their withdrawal rights and 
————————————————— 
31 DOE ANOPR Proposal at P 22 (“Fifth, hybrid facilities should be studied based on the amount of 
injection and/or withdrawal rights requested . . . . This provides incentives for co-location with new 
generation facilities and ensures efficient buildout of the transmission system.”); id. P 23 (“Sixth, any 
hybrid interconnection shall be required to install the system protection facilities necessary to prevent 
unauthorized injections or withdrawals that exceed the respective rights.”); id. P 28 (“Eleventh, utilities 
serving large loads, including those at hybrid facilities, should be responsible for transmission service based 
on their withdrawal rights, as that value amount reflects the quantity of capacity and energy that is being 
transmitted across the transmission system to load.”). 
32 See CAISO Comments at 8-12, 15; Constellation Comments at 19-22, 32-36; ENGIE Comments at 
8-9, 12-13; Industrial Customer Organizations Comments at 22-24 (supporting Principle 11); ISO-NE 
Comments at 7-8 (supporting Principle 5 and commenting on Principle 6); OpenAI Comments at 2 
(supporting Principle 5); Terraflux Comments at 2; Tesla Comments at 2 (supporting Principles 5 and 11); 
Vantage Data Centers Comments at 6-7 (supporting Principle 5); Vistra Comments at 32-33.  
33 CAISO Comments at 8. 
34 ISO-NE Comments at 7-8 (“ISO-NE is supportive of [Principle 5], the impacts of which would be 
reflected in study assumptions.”). 

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
 
 
11 
injection rights,” thereby “help[ing] states, transmission providers, and load-serving entities avoid 
unnecessary network upgrades and additional generation procurement at ratepayers’ expense.”35   
A host of commenters agree that identifying a co-located facility’s network upgrades and 
charging it for transmission service based on its actual use of the transmission system ensures the 
reliable interconnection of co-located facilities without overestimating their impact on the 
transmission system, maximizing the efficiency of transmission system buildout, to the benefit of 
load customers and other retail ratepayers.36  Doing so also comports with cost causation, ensuring 
that load customers—particularly load customers fully funding upgrades under a participant 
funding arrangement—are not obliged to pay the full costs of upgrades for which they are not the 
“but for” cause, and are not forced to take or pay for transmission service that they do not actually 
use.37  Finally, providing transmission service to co-located facilities based on their actual use of 
the transmission system will incentivize more new large loads to interconnect via co-location, 
which is undoubtedly the large load interconnection model most likely to fulfill speed-to-power 
needs while minimizing strain on the grid.38  
————————————————— 
35 CAISO Comments at 15. 
36 See Constellation Comments at 20-21, 33-36; ENGIE Comments at 8, 12; OpenAI Comments at 2; 
Vantage Data Centers Comments at 6-7; Vistra Comments at 33 (citing Improvements to Generator 
Interconnection Procs. & Agreements, Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054, at PP 1510-1511, order on 
reh'g, 185 FERC ¶ 61,063 (2023), order on reh'g, Order No. 2023-A, 186 FERC ¶ 61,199, errata notice, 
188 FERC ¶ 61,134 (2024)). 
37 See Constellation Comments at 34; Industrial Customer Organizations Comments at 22-24 (“The 
‘actual use’ principle is critically important to the calculation of billing determinants and the assessment of 
various Commission-jurisdictional charges for transmission service, and also for capacity service and 
ancillary services.  Customers with behind-the-meter generation should be billed on a net basis (accounting 
for their net demand requirements) and not on a gross load basis . . .  . [T]he Commission should affirm 
measurement of ‘actual use’ of the transmission system in allocating transmission costs . . . . ”); Vistra 
Comments at 33. 
38 See ENGIE Comments at 8; OpenAI Comments at 2; Vantage Data Centers Comments at 7; Vistra 
Comments at 32-33. 

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
 
 
12 
Multiple commenters, including grid operators, identify commonsense protections 
necessary to reliably enable this approach.  For example, CAISO explains that the Commission 
must require co-located facilities whose network upgrades are based on their net injection and 
withdrawal rights to take measures that ensure that they behave according to those rights, such as 
installing circuit breakers at their point of interconnection and providing transmission providers 
with real-time direct telemetry and outage schedules.39  ISO-NE argues that protection schemes 
should be “simple, straightforward, and standardized,” should act only behind the point of 
interconnection, and must be designed to account for potential failures.40  MISO states that it 
“agrees that hybrid interconnections should be required to install protective relays to prevent 
unauthorized injections or withdrawals.”41  CAISO also notes that transmission providers must 
have detailed modeling information to study the full load and generating capabilities of each 
component of a co-located facility in order to ascertain reliability impacts and identify the correct 
system protections.42  Vistra supports enabling transmission providers to identify and impose 
requirements to ensure that co-located facilities inject and withdraw according to their rights, as 
well as other measures necessary to ensure reliable operation of the transmission system.  
Importantly, the Commission must ensure that any such requirements are just and reasonable and 
not unduly discriminatory or preferential. 
————————————————— 
39 CAISO Comments at 8, 11.  
40 ISO-NE Comments at 8-9. 
41 MISO Comments at 25. 
42 CAISO Comments at 8-9  

--- PAGE 13 ---
 
 
 
13 
Objections to identifying network upgrades and assessing transmission charges based on a 
customer’s actual usage of the transmission system are unpersuasive.43  The record in this 
proceeding indicates that transmission providers can—and already do—rely on system protection 
facilities to ensure that co-located facilities can be limited to their requested injection and 
withdrawal rights.44  Indeed, the comments of multiple transmission providers demonstrate that 
the market operators, balancing authorities, and reliability coordinators responsible for 
maintaining reliability across swaths of the Eastern and Western Interconnections believe that they 
can reliably interconnect co-located facilities with network upgrades identified based on their 
actual use of the transmission system.  As CAISO notes, “strict, unwavering protections like circuit 
breakers at [a facility’s] point of interconnection” allow CAISO to interconnect hybrid facilities 
safely and reliably.45   
Finally, some transmission providers argue that netting will be complex to implement.46  
Though little evidence is offered in support of these claims, it should be no surprise that meeting 
————————————————— 
43 See Duke Energy Comments at 19-20; SPP Comments at 10-11. 
44 See American Transmission Company Comments at 10-11 (explaining that American Transmission 
Company charges its transmission service customers with behind-the-meter hydroelectric generation for 
transmission service based on net usage and that the customers go offline in their generators fail); 
Constellation Comments at 21-22; ENGIE Comments at 8-9 (“Technology to prevent unauthorized flows 
exists and is currently in use.  As long as injection and withdrawal rights are agreed upon between the 
facility and the transmission provider and are clearly delineated in the interconnection agreement, a hybrid 
facility will be able to satisfy the operational parameters.”); ODEC Comments at 7-8 (explaining that 
ODEC’s distribution cooperative members are already installing system-protection devices on storage 
facilities that trigger a complete disconnection from the grid during certain fault conditions, but noting that 
clear standards are needed to prevent cascading disconnections in situations where a generator outage 
causes a trip of loads served by transmission lines that are not electrically connected to the generator). 
45 CAISO Comments at 8. 
46 See Duke Energy Comments at 17-18; MISO Comments at 24, 27-28. 

--- PAGE 14 ---
 
 
 
14 
unprecedented demand growth will require regions to rethink certain processes designed for a 
bygone era.47    
III. 
There Are Multiple Policy Options for Allocating Network Upgrade Costs  
There is much debate in the record over who should pay for the network upgrades needed 
to interconnect new large loads, regardless of whether they are co-located with generation.  While 
a number of commenters support the ANOPR’s principle that new loads should be responsible for 
100% of the network upgrade costs they require,48 many transmission providers oppose that 
principle and suggest that they should roll the costs of those network upgrades into rate base.49   
Notwithstanding that debate, commenters recognize that the Commission cannot depart 
from its prohibition on “and” pricing.50  Any network upgrade cost allocation method must adhere 
to the longstanding rule that a transmission provider may charge a transmission customer either 
the incremental cost of expanding the transmission system to provide the customer’s requested 
service, or the embedded costs of the transmission system with expansion costs rolled in, but not 
————————————————— 
47 This line of argument is particularly unpersuasive given that PJM implemented netting under its 
BTMG program over two decades ago.  See, e.g., PSEG Comments at 22; PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 
Comments of Vistra Corp., Docket No. EL25-49-000 et al., at 14 (filed Apr. 23, 2025) (citing PJM 
Interconnection, L.L.C., Submission of Revisions to Open Access Transmission Tariff, the Amended and 
Restated Operating Agreement, Etc., Docket No. ER04-608-000 (March 1, 2004)). 
48 See Illinois AG Comments at 11-12; ISO-NE Comments at 10; Joint Consumer Advocates Comments 
at 25; Maine OPA Comments at 2-3; Maryland PSC Comments at 11; NECOS and ENE Comments at 19-
20; NRECA Comments at 20-21; NRG Comments at 26-28; ODEC Comments at 9; Ohio Consumers’ 
Counsel Comments at 2; Southern Maryland Electric Cooperative Comments at 4-6. 
49 See Duke Energy Comments at 22-24; EEI Comments at 8-9, 12; Exelon Comments at 6-11; 
Indicated PJM TOs Comments at 9-15; MISO TOs Comments at 26-27; PG&E Comments at 16-17. 
50 See EEI Comments at 13 n.23; NRECA Comments at 20-21; Vantage Data Centers Comments at 11; 
WIRES Comments at 7; cf. Exelon Comments at 9-10. 

--- PAGE 15 ---
 
 
 
15 
both.51  This prohibition on “and” pricing ensures that transmission providers do not charge 
transmission customers twice for the same infrastructure.52  With that starting point, there are 
essentially three options for network upgrade cost allocation in the load interconnection process:   
1. Participant Funding:53 The large load customer pays the incremental cost of upgrades 
identified for which it is the “but for” causer, i.e., without the load customer, the upgrades 
would not be built.  The customer also pays for its net use of the transmission system at the 
transmission provider’s embedded-cost rate for transmission service based on the 
transmission provider’s revenue requirement, which does not include the cost of the 
upgrade that the customer funded.54   
————————————————— 
51 Inquiry Concerning the Commission’s Pricing Policy for Transmission Servs. Provided by Pub. Utils. 
Under the Fed. Power Act, 59 Fed. Reg. 55031 (Nov. 3, 1994), FERC Stats. and Regs. ¶ 31,005 (1994)). 
52 See Standardization of Generator Interconnection Agreements & Procs., Order No. 2003, 104 FERC 
¶ 61,103, at P 694 (2003), order on reh’g, Order No. 2003-A, 106 FERC ¶ 61,220, at PP 579, 586, order 
on reh’g, Order No. 2003-B, 109 FERC ¶ 61,287 (2004), order on reh’g, Order No. 2003-C, 111 FERC ¶ 
61,401 (2005), aff’d sub nom. Nat’l Ass’n of Regul. Util. Comm’rs v. FERC, 475 F.3d 1277 (D.C. Cir. 
2007). 
53 In objecting to the participant funding option, Exelon argues that “[o]nce a large load has fulfilled its 
responsibility (whether immediately or over time) for funding certain upgrades, prohibitions on ‘and’ 
pricing would draw one to the conclusion that they would, immediately or eventually, not be responsible 
for any further payments for transmission service.”  Exelon Comments at 9-10; id. at 7; see also Indicated 
PJM TOs Comments at 15.  But under the participant funding option described above, the transmission 
provider would not include in its transmission revenue requirement the cost of the upgrades that the 
customer, not the transmission provider, paid.  As such, the prohibition on “and” pricing would not be 
relevant. 
54 See Illinois AG Comments at 11-12; ISO-NE Comments at 10; Joint Consumer Advocates Comments 
at 25; Maine OPA Comments at 2-3; Maryland PSC Comments at 11; NECOS and ENE Comments at 19-
20; NRECA Comments at 20-21; NRG Comments at 26-28; ODEC Comments at 9; Ohio Consumers’ 
Counsel Comments at 2; PJM Comments at 8-9; Southern Maryland Electric Cooperative Comments at 4-
6. 
 
The NY Utility Intervention Unit notes that participant funding could include a “shared upgrade 
facility”-style crediting mechanism, in which later-queued load customers share in cost responsibility for 
network upgrades identified in their studies that have already been funded by earlier-queued interconnection 
customers by paying a partial reimbursement to the original participant funder.  See NY Utility Intervention 
Unit Comments at 9.  

--- PAGE 16 ---
 
 
 
16 
2. Initial Funding + Crediting:  The large load customer pays the incremental cost of 
upgrades identified for which it is the “but for” causer.  The transmission provider refunds 
the customer the entire amount the customer spent on the upgrade over time in the form of 
transmission credits.  The customer also pays for its net use of the transmission system at 
the transmission provider’s embedded-cost rate for transmission service based on the 
transmission provider’s revenue requirement, which does include the costs of the upgrade 
that the customer funded.55     
3. Embedded-Cost Pricing:  The costs of upgrades necessary to accommodate the large load 
customer are rolled into the transmission provider’s transmission revenue requirement.  
The customer pays for its net use of the transmission system at embedded-cost transmission 
rates based on that revenue requirement.56 
Vistra believes that either of the first two options could be just and reasonable.  There is widespread 
support among commenters for the principle that large loads should be responsible for funding 
100% of the network upgrade costs they are assigned through the interconnection study process.57  
Options 1 and 2 are both consistent with that principle.  
————————————————— 
55 See Bloom Energy Comments at 13-15; Digital Power Network Comments at 4; Duke Energy 
Comments at 22-24; EEI Comments at 12; EDF Power Solutions Comments at 17; ISO-NE Comments at 
10-11 (supporting 100% cost allocation to the load customer and stating that “any crediting mechanism 
should be simple”); Microsoft Comments at 11-12; PG&E Comments at 16-17; SPP TOs Comments at 8; 
Vantage Data Centers Comments at 11. 
56 See EEI Comments at 8-9; Exelon Comments at 6-11; Indicated PJM TOs Comments at 9-15; MISO 
TOs Comments at 26-27. 
57 See Illinois AG Comments at 11-12; ISO-NE Comments at 10; Joint Consumer Advocates Comments 
at 25; Large Public Power Council Comments at 14-15; LS Power Comments at 6; Maine OPA Comments 
at 2-3; Maryland Energy Administration Comments at 5; Maryland PSC Comments at 11; NECOS and 
ENE Comments at 19-20; NY Utility Intervention Unit Comments at 9-10; NRECA Comments at 20-21; 
NRG Comments at 26-28; ODEC Comments at 9; Ohio Consumers’ Counsel Comments at 2; PJM 
Comments at 8-9; Southern Maryland Electric Cooperative Comments at 4-6. 

--- PAGE 17 ---
 
 
 
17 
The third option, to contrast, creates a significant risk of cost shifts to other customers if a 
large load customer fails to materialize, consumes less energy than intended, or ceases operation 
sooner than anticipated.  As NRG explains, the types of revenue guarantee commitments that 
traditional utilities propose to mitigate this concern are not, in practice, tied to the revenue 
requirements of the network upgrade costs needed to accommodate that specific customer.58  That 
disconnect raises the potential for significant cost shifting.59  Moreover, the third option dulls the 
price signal to encourage efficient siting of large load additions.60 
What remains is simply a policy choice for the Commission.  Participant funding without 
crediting holds harmless other customers, guaranteeing that they will not be saddled with 
potentially significant transmission investments required to serve large loads.61  However, to the 
extent incorporating a large load’s network upgrade costs into rate base can actually lower average 
transmission rates—as evidence suggests it can62—participant funding foregoes the opportunity to 
realize that upside.63  Initial funding with crediting could provide that benefit, but may also allow 
the transmission provider to earn a profit on the network upgrade costs that the transmission 
provider did not actually itself expend, potentially at a higher cost than the financing available to 
————————————————— 
58 NRG Comments at 27-28. 
59 Id. 
60 Id.; see also Bloom Energy Comments at 14; Duke Energy Comments at 22; NRECA Comments at 
20.  
61 See Joint Consumer Advocates Comments at 24-27; Maine OPA Comments at 2-3; NRECA 
Comments at 20-21; Ohio Consumers’ Counsel Comments at 2-3; Ohio FEA Comments at 5; PJM 
Comments at 8-9; Southern Maryland Electric Cooperative Comments at 5. 
62 Ryan Wiser et al., Factors Influencing Recent Trends in Retail Electricity Prices in the United States, 
The Elec. J., Dec. 2025, at 5-6, 8.  
63 See Exelon Comments at 8-9 & note 18; Indicated PJM TOs Comments at 15, 20-21. 

--- PAGE 18 ---
 
 
 
18 
the large load customer.64  Participant funding also furthers speed to power by providing cost 
certainty that can be built into a large load customer’s commercial negotiations, whereas a 
crediting approach could entail more uncertainty and necessitate a risk premium in commercial 
arrangements. 
IV. 
Standalone Load Interconnection 
After the Commission addresses the issues that are most readily solvable in the near-term, 
it should proceed to exercise jurisdiction to regulate load interconnection to the transmission 
system for loads that are not co-located with generation resources.  These reforms may be more 
time consuming to develop because they represent a new application of the Commission’s 
jurisdiction.  However, as indicated below, Vistra believes that this step is fully consistent with the 
Commission’s jurisdiction, there is a clear need for reform to prevent undue discrimination, and a 
more standardized load interconnection process could bring a host of other benefits. 
A. Jurisdiction 
While a number of commenters contest FERC’s authority to regulate interconnections to 
the transmission system, none do so in a thorough or persuasive manner.  For instance, several 
commenters rely on arguments that the DOE ANOPR Proposal will infringe on state authority 
over siting or the terms of retail sales.65  But as Vistra explained at length in its initial comments, 
it is entirely possible for FERC to regulate the interconnection process without infringing on these 
state jurisdictional issues.  Indeed, Vistra’s Exhibit A illustrates the extent to which federal 
jurisdiction over load interconnection to the transmission system would not impact existing state 
————————————————— 
64 Illinois AG Comments at 12. 
65 See NESCOE Comments at 4-6; New Mexico PRC Comments at 4; OMS Comments at 5-6; 
Pennsylvania PUC Comments at 10. 

--- PAGE 19 ---
 
 
 
19 
large load tariffs.66  Simply put, there is nothing about regulating the transmission-level 
interconnection of large loads that necessarily implicates states’ reserved authority over retail 
sales.   
Multiple commenters also rely on the theory that the purpose of the interconnection 
determines jurisdictional boundaries, so all load interconnection is necessarily state 
jurisdictional.67  OPSI and the CPUC emphasize that large loads do not seek to interconnect to 
engage in FERC-jurisdictional wholesale transactions; rather, they interconnect to purchase 
electricity for consumption at retail.68  That is beside the point.  The Commission recently rebutted 
this line of argument by explaining that it historically exercised authority over generator 
interconnection “based on the nature of interconnection to the transmission system generally, not 
the purpose for such interconnection (i.e., to make a wholesale sale or to make a wholesale or retail 
purchase)[.]”69  Indeed, in Order Nos. 2003 and 2003-A, the Commission addressed the “purpose 
of the interconnection” only in the context of explaining when it would assert jurisdiction over 
interconnections to distribution facilities.70   
That conclusion is further illustrated by a Commission order quoted by the PA PUC as 
follows:  “[if] no wholesale transaction is being conducted over [a facility], . . . there is no 
————————————————— 
66 Vistra Comments, attach. A. 
67 See California PUC Comments at 11; New York PSC Comments at 6; OPSI Comments at 5; see also 
Virginia State Corporation Commission Comments at 5 (disputing the DOE’s assertion that large loads 
interconnecting to the transmission system do so to obtain transmission service). 
68 California PUC Comments at 11; OPSI Comments at 5.  
69 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 190 FERC ¶ 61,115, at P 72 (2025) (“Show Cause Order”). 
70 See Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103 at PP 795, 803-809; Order No. 2003-A, 106 FERC ¶ 61,220 
at PP 710, 730.  

--- PAGE 20 ---
 
 
 
20 
Commission-jurisdictional use of the facilities.”71  The omitted part of that sentence clarifies that 
the facilities at issue were distribution facilities.  Indeed, that entire statement was made in the 
context of a determination about whether to assert jurisdiction over an interconnection to a 34 kV 
line that all parties agreed was a local distribution facility.72  The Commission declined to assert 
jurisdiction over the interconnection because Order No. 2003 only asserted jurisdiction over 
interconnections to distribution facilities where those facilities were used to make wholesale 
sales.73   
Along a similar vein, some entities suggest that some of the equipment in the “last mile” 
between the load and the transmission system always qualifies as distribution facilities under the 
Commission’s seven-factor test, such that load interconnections are always state jurisdictional.74  
But this argument is squarely foreclosed by language in Order Nos. 888 and 888-A.  Specifically, 
in Order No. 888, the Commission explained that “even where there are no identifiable local 
distribution facilities, states nevertheless have jurisdiction in all circumstances over the service of 
delivering energy to end users.”75  While some argue that this quote shows that the “last mile” 
————————————————— 
71 Pennsylvania PUC Comments at 5-6 (citing PJM Interconnection, LLC, 116 FERC ¶ 61,102, at P 22 
(2006)). 
72 PJM Interconnection, LLC, 116 FERC ¶ 61,102 at PP 4-5, 19, 22 (“Because no wholesale transaction 
is being conducted on ComEd’s distribution facilities, we find that there is no Commission-jurisdictional 
use of the facilities, so the Commission’s jurisdiction under Order No. 2003 does not extend to use of those 
facilities.” (emphasis added)). 
73 Id. PP 18, 22-24. 
74 See Joint Consumer Advocates Comments at 5-6; Pennsylvania PUC Comments at 4-5; see also 
Exelon Comments at 4 note 6. 
75 See Promoting Wholesale Competition Through Open Access Non-Discriminatory Transmission 
Servs. by Public Utils.; Recovery of Stranded Costs by Pub. Utils. and Transmitting Utils., Order No. 888, 
61 Fed. Reg. 21,540, at 21,626 (1996), FERC Stats. and Regs. ¶ 31,036 (1996), order on 
 

--- PAGE 21 ---
 
 
 
21 
always includes some distribution facilities, it in fact stands for the opposite proposition.  In 
contemplating that state jurisdiction would exist even where there are “no identifiable local 
distribution facilities” used to deliver energy to end users, the Commission necessarily 
contemplated a situation where the end user is served directly from the transmission system 
without distribution facilities.  The Commission further explained that even in such cases, where 
no “identifiable distribution facilities” are used to deliver energy to end users, states still retain 
jurisdiction over retail service.  As Vistra explained in its initial comments, Commission 
jurisdiction over the interconnection of loads to the transmission system does not disrupt that state 
jurisdiction over the retail service that load takes after it is interconnected.76 
The Commission further confirmed that the “last mile” need not always include distribution 
facilities in Order No. 888-A by specifically rejecting calls from state commissions to abandon the 
seven-factor test in favor of a bright line test based on whether a facility is used to serve retail 
load.77  In rejecting that request, the Commission explained that the line between transmission and 
distribution facilities does not follow the same bright line as that between wholesale and retail 
sales of energy.78  Thus, the Commission indicated that (1) retail transactions can occur without 
any distribution facilities and, relatedly, (2) facilities used to deliver electricity to end-users are not 
————————————————— 
reh’g, Order No. 888-A, 62 Fed. Reg. 12,274 (1997), FERC Stats. and Regs. ¶ 31,048 (1997), order on 
reh’g, Order No. 888-B, 81 FERC ¶ 61,248 (1997), order on reh’g, Order No. 888-C, 82 FERC ¶ 61,046 
(1998), aff’d in relevant part sub nom. Transmission Access Pol’y Study Grp. v. FERC, 225 F.3d 667 (D.C. 
Cir. 2000), aff’d sub. nom. New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1; see also id. app. G (“In addition, regardless of 
the details of the chain of delivery services necessary to move electric energy from the generator to the end 
user, in most cases the last public utility in the chain will use facilities that historically were considered 
local distribution facilities.” (emphasis added)).    
76 Vistra Comments at 13-15. 
77 Order No. 888-A, 62 Fed. Reg. 12,274 at 12,370-71 (1996).  
78 Id. 

--- PAGE 22 ---
 
 
 
22 
necessarily distribution facilities.  And more recent Commission precedent confirming that the 
seven-factor test is a totality of the circumstances test also cuts against arguments that “last mile” 
facilities are always state jurisdictional based on a rote application of some of the seven factors.79   
Further bolstering the conclusion that the “last mile” does not always contain distribution 
facilities are decades of Commission cases illustrating that load customers can, and often do, own 
the interconnection facilities up to the point of interconnection, either on their own or in 
conjunction with a co-located generator.80  Where the interconnection facilities are self-owned, the 
utility’s delivery point is at the point of interconnection to the transmission system—and it is clear 
that the utility does not use distribution facilities to deliver energy to the point of interconnection 
to the transmission system.  And in any event, Commission precedent further supports the 
conclusion that those “last mile” interconnection facilities do not constitute distribution facilities.81 
————————————————— 
79 See S. Cal. Edison Co., 153 FERC ¶ 61,384, at P 19 (2015) (“The seven factor test is not subject to 
formulaic application or categorical standards.  Rather, the test requires comprehensive consideration of 
how the totality of the circumstances bears on each of the seven factors.”); Commonwealth Edison Co., 167 
FERC ¶ 61,173, at PP 26-27 (2019) (eschewing a rote application of the seventh factor and finding that the 
lower voltage of the project was indicative of the benefits of using superconductor cable rather than the 
capacity or purpose of the project).  
80 See King Mt. Upton Wind, LLC, 180 FERC ¶ 61,029, at P 1 (2022); see also, e.g., Sycamore 
Cogeneration Co., 40 FERC ¶ 61,237, at 61,799 (1987) (finding that interconnection facilities owned by a 
cogeneration facility are part of the qualifying facility); Dow Chem. Co, 148 FERC ¶ 61,017, at PP 5, 16 
(2014) (referencing the inclusion of interconnection facilities in cogeneration qualifying facilities); Alcoa 
Power Generating, 120 FERC ¶ 61,035, at P 5 (2007) (discussing the transmission lines owned by an 
industrial company to connect its manufacturing facilities to electric suppliers).  
81 Indeed, the Commission previously found that an arrangement in which a data center and generator 
share ownership of interconnection facilities does not affect the status of those facilities as “eligible 
facilities” for purposes of the generator’s EWG status.  King Mt. Upton Wind, LLC, 180 FERC ¶ 61,029 at 
PP 12-19.  If the Commission were to find that a large load’s use or ownership of such interconnection 
facilities rendered them distribution facilities, that may have significant unintended consequences for a co-
located generator’s EWG status.  See 18 C.F.R. § 366.1 (citing 15 U.S.C. § 79z-5a(a)(2) (defining “eligible 
facility” to include “interconnecting transmission facilities necessary to effect a sale of electric energy at 
wholesale” (emphasis added))). 

--- PAGE 23 ---
 
 
 
23 
Multiple parties raise reasonable arguments, however, about whether it is wise to 
incorporate the seven-factor test in this instance.  For example, ISO-NE and the Massachusetts 
Attorney General’s Office ask the Commission to clarify who will apply the seven-factor test to 
make jurisdictional determinations and how it will be applied.82  NRG explains that the application 
of the seven-factor test is often complex and requires hearing procedures, and “[e]xclusive reliance 
on the seven-factor test to determine whether a facility with which a large load seeks to 
interconnect is transmission risks creating a long series of time consuming and unproductive 
disputes . . . which would frustrate the Secretary’s intent . . . [.]”83  To avoid that result, NRG 
suggests that the Commission adopt a rebuttable presumption that any proposed load 
interconnection at 230 kV or above is a large load interconnection directly to a transmission facility 
and thus covered by any standardized procedures the Commission adopts.84  Vistra agrees that 
adopting this rebuttable presumption could increase certainty and therefore avoid unnecessary 
delays.85 
Multiple commenters ask the Commission to confine any new requirements to instances 
where customers take unbundled transmission service and clarify that it is not exercising 
jurisdiction over load interconnections where the load will take bundled transmission service.86  
Putting aside the question of whether FERC has the authority to assert jurisdiction over bundled 
————————————————— 
82 See ISO-NE Comments at 4-5; Massachusetts AG Comments at 6. 
83 NRG Comments at 7. 
84 Id. at 9-10. 
85 See Eolian Comments at 7-9 (explaining that bright-line rules governing which loads are subject to 
the Commission’s interconnection procedures will ensure clarity and prevent protracted litigation). 
86 See Duke Energy Comments at 7-9; MISO TOs Comments at 17. 

--- PAGE 24 ---
 
 
 
24 
retail transmission service, precedent indicates that FERC would not be required to do so.87  
Indeed, the Supreme Court has explained that FERC has authority to tailor the scope of its Section 
206 remedies to solve the specific problem it identifies.88  For instance, if FERC finds undue 
discrimination in transmission-level load interconnection processes—i.e., that transmission 
providers are gatekeeping access to the transmission system to pressure new large loads to take 
service from their affiliated generation—FERC could reasonably limit its reforms to unbundled 
regions. 
B. Undue Discrimination 
Prompt action is necessary to address the undue discrimination brewing in the 
transmission-level large load interconnection process.  In its initial comments, Vistra identified 
several ways in which the lack of standardized rates, terms, and conditions for transmission-level 
load interconnection provides utilities unfettered discretion that creates the potential for textbook 
examples of undue discrimination.89  
Vistra’s concerns with undue discrimination are consistent with those raised by other 
independent power producers and large load customers.90  The Clean Energy Buyers Association 
————————————————— 
87 See DOE ANOPR Proposal at PP 4-5 (citing New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1, 30, 36, 42 (2002) 
(Thomas, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part)). 
88 New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. at 27 (“Because FERC determined that the remedy it ordered constituted 
a sufficient response to the problems FERC had identified in the wholesale market, FERC had no § 
206 obligation to regulate bundled retail transmissions or to order universal unbundling.”). 
89 Vistra Comments at 21-24.  
90 See Alliance for Tribal Clean Energy Comments at 5 (explaining that financial prerequisites privilege 
well-capitalized private developers, “creat[ing] the same type of undue discrimination that Order No. 2023 
sought to eliminate”); CEBA Comments at 8; Constellation Comments at 17-18; Electricity Customer 
Alliance Comments at 9 (as in Order No. 2003, “the large load interconnection status quo is proving 
ineffective to ensure just and reasonable rates and prevent undue discrimination”); Eolian Comments at 17-
 

--- PAGE 25 ---
 
 
 
25 
warns that “unjust and unreasonable delays in interconnection can constitute undue 
discrimination.”91  Constellation argues that the absence of consistent standards for large loads 
creates a “vacuum” in which transmission owners have discretion to deny large load and co-
location proposals or impose unreasonable obligations, analogizing these discrimination concerns 
to those motivating Order No. 2003.92  
Other commenters try to distinguish Vistra’s concerns from those motivating Order 
No. 2003, claiming that utilities lack an incentive to discriminate against large loads.93  But this 
perspective ignores the significant financial opportunity created by large loads.  Importantly, the 
financial impact of large loads for utilities varies greatly based on the large load configuration and 
the generation source.  There are at least three incentives for discrimination that the Commission 
can recognize and address: (1) transmission owners with generation affiliates have an incentive to 
favor the interconnection of large loads that agree to take service from their affiliated generation; 
(2) transmission owners have an incentive to favor large loads interconnecting in front of the meter 
to maximize transmission charges; and (3) incumbent utilities have an incentive to seek to develop 
the generation component of co-located load.94   
————————————————— 
18 (“[T]he absence of standardized, transparent procedures creates opportunities for undue 
discrimination.”); Invenergy Comments at 7 (describing security requirements that force load to partner 
with load-serving entities and “create undue barriers to market entry”); Verrus Comments at 3 (“Unfiled 
procedures create uncertainty and opportunities for discrimination.”).  
91 CEBA Comments at 8.  
92 Constellation Comments at 17-18.  
93 See Exelon Comments at 15-16; Maryland PSC Comments at 4; MISO Comments at 17-18; MISO 
TOs Comments at 16; North Carolina Utilities Commission Public Staff Comments at 4-5; OMS Comments 
at 8; OPSI Comments at 6.  
94 Vistra Comments at 24.  

--- PAGE 26 ---
 
 
 
26 
Commenters arguing that the DOE ANOPR Proposal fails to introduce evidence of undue 
discrimination95 ignore the fact that the Commission “need not, and should not, wait for systemic 
problems to undermine” critical functions before it acts.96   The Commission has warned of the 
potential for undue discrimination in other proceedings,97 and that concern is already manifesting.  
As Vistra explained in its initial comments, in the absence of clear Commission guidance, utilities 
are blocking behind-the-meter co-location deals while favoring load interconnection in front of the 
meter.98  Other comments in the record illustrate similar points.  For example, in its initial 
comments, Exelon references its use of transmission security agreements, including deposits and 
security designed to ensure that large load customers contribute sufficiently to the transmission 
revenue requirement.99 Without standardized rules governing those arrangements, there is no 
protection to ensure that Exelon will not subject similarly situated customers to different terms.  
————————————————— 
95 See MISO Comments at 17; MISO TOs Comments at 16; NESCOE Comments at 9; New York PSC 
at 4; OPSI Comments at 6.  
96 See, e.g., Transmission Plan. & Cost Allocation by Transmission Owning & Operating Pub. 
Utils., Order No. 1000, 136 FERC ¶ 61,051, at P 50 (2011), order on reh’g, Order No. 1000-A, 139 FERC 
¶ 61,132, order on reh’g & clarification, Order No. 1000-B, 141 FERC ¶ 61,044 (2012), aff’d sub 
nom. S.C. Pub. Serv. Auth. v. FERC, 762 F.3d 41, 64-65; Xcel Energy Servs. Inc. v. FERC, 41 F.4th 548, 
560-62 (D.C. Cir. 2022); Associated Gas Distribs. v. FERC, 824 F.2d 981, 1008-09 (D.C. Cir. 1987) 
(“Agencies do not need to conduct experiments in order to rely on the prediction that an unsupported stone 
will fall; nor need they do so for predictions that competition will normally lead to lower prices.”). 
97 See Show Cause Order, 190 FERC ¶ 61,115 at P 75.  
98 See Show Cause Order, 190 FERC ¶ 61,115 at P 51 (explaining that there are allegations in the record 
that “Exelon has actively blocked several Fully Isolated Co-Located Load projects”); see also PJM 
Interconnection, LLC, Request for Limited Prospective Waiver, Docket No. ER26-313, at 1-2 (filed Oct. 
29, 2025) (explaining that the proposed co-located load at the Susquehanna Nuclear facility will now 
become front-of-the-meter load); Vistra Comments at 23-24 (“There is already substantial evidence of such 
undue discrimination in the record in ongoing Commission proceedings.”); id. at 21 (citing, inter alia, Atl. 
City Elec. Co., Second Motion for Leave and Answer of Constellation Energy Generation, LLC, Docket 
No. ER24-2888-000, at 2 (filed Nov. 12, 2024) (alleging that “Exelon refuses to review reliability studies 
and thus blocks interconnection services”)). 
99 Exelon Comments at 4-5.  

--- PAGE 27 ---
 
 
 
27 
This concern is consistent with observations by Invenergy that utilities have imposed “exorbitant” 
security requirements on large load paired with merchant generation, driving large load to partner 
with utilities instead of merchant generators.100  
As the Commission has recognized, unchecked discretion without clear standards creates 
a risk of undue discrimination.101  Utilities are already taking advantage of regulatory uncertainty 
to extract concessions from data centers.  A commitment from the Commission to act on 
transmission-level load interconnection would discipline utility action and help prevent undue 
discrimination. 
C. Benefits of Standardizing Transmission-Level Load Interconnection 
Standardizing transmission-level load interconnection would also bring other benefits.  
Critically, it would improve the load forecasting process, which would in turn facilitate smarter 
transmission planning and improve capacity market price signals.  Several commenters address 
the shortcomings of the load forecasting process, particularly over-forecasting caused by 
speculative or duplicative interconnection requests102 and the lack of incentive for utilities to 
scrutinize large forecasts.103  Governors Shapiro and Youngkin note that some recent load forecasts 
even exceed real-world development constraints, such as semiconductor availability.104   
————————————————— 
100 Invenergy Comments at 7.  
101 See Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 175 FERC ¶ 61,198, at PP 1, 38-39 (2021) (rejecting proposal to allow 
SPP’s Board of Directors to approve case-by-case reallocations of transmission costs because the “proposal 
grant[ed] the [board] too much discretion” without clear standards guiding its decisions, creating a risk that 
its decisions could result in unjust and unreasonable or unduly discriminatory or preferential cost 
reallocations). 
102 See Governors Shapiro and Youngkin Comments at 1-2; SEIA Comments at 3; Talen Comments at 
9-10. 
103 SEIA Comments at 3.   
104 Governors Shapiro and Youngkin Comments at 1-2. 

--- PAGE 28 ---
 
 
 
28 
A standardized transmission-level load interconnection process would produce a more 
realistic load forecast.  First, it would reduce the incentive for “forum shopping” (including the 
filing of interconnection requests in multiple jurisdictions) that currently results from process 
differences across utility service territories.  Second, a standardized process could include study 
deposits, readiness requirements, and withdrawal penalties to deter speculative projects that are 
unlikely to materialize.105  Third, a standardized process could introduce a threshold for including 
large load requests in a system forecast, overhauling the current system where inclusion criteria 
vary widely among transmission owners.106  Under a more transparent forecasting regime, 
Microsoft notes that large load customers could even validate the load levels used by utilities and 
regional planning entities.107 
A more realistic forecast would result in better transmission planning and capacity market 
price signals.108  Load forecasts are a “critical input into Commission-jurisdictional wholesale 
————————————————— 
105 See Talen Comments at 9.  
106 Compare PPL, PPL Service Territory 2026 Load Forecast Adjustments 4 (Sept. 16, 2025), 
https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/committees-
groups/subcommittees/las/2025/20250916/20250916-item-04g---ppl-large-load-request.pdf 
(explaining 
that its load forecast includes the capacity of all potential customers with a “Signed Agreement” (which 
begins the engineering study phase)), with Exelon, Exelon Large Load Adjustment Proposal – 2026 PJM 
Load 
Forecast 
4 
(Sept. 
16, 
2025), 
https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/committees-
groups/subcommittees/las/2025/20250916/20250916-item-04d---exelon-large-load-request.pdf 
(explaining that its load forecast includes the capacity of all customers with a signed “Engineering 
Agreement” that includes a “Construction Commitment”).  
107 Microsoft Comments at 10.  
108 See Governors Shapiro and Youngkin Comments at 1-2; Microsoft Comments at 10; SEIA 
Comments at 4; see also Letter from FERC Chairman David Rosner to the RTOs/ISOs on Large Load 
Forecasting (Sept. 18, 2025), https://www.ferc.gov/news-events/news/chairman-rosners-letter-rtosisos-
large-load-forecasting (“[W]e cannot efficiently plan the electric generation and transmission needed to 
serve new customers if we don’t forecast how much energy they will need as accurately as possible.”).    

--- PAGE 29 ---
 
 
 
29 
market operations.”109  Refining the forecasting process is critical to ensure that those markets 
operate efficiently. 
V. 
Conclusion 
The Commission now has an extensive record on which to act to ensure the “timely, 
orderly, and non-discriminatory” interconnection of large loads to the transmission system.  Vistra 
submits that the Commission should prioritize the issues on which it can make the most immediate 
and meaningful progress.  Specifically, Vistra believes that the Commission can make the most 
significant progress in the near term by facilitating co-location with existing generators under 
currently effective filed rates and then focusing on reforms related to the co-location of large load 
and new generation.  Doing so will position the industry to meet new demand while maximizing 
the use of existing infrastructure and minimizing strain on the grid.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
[Signatures on next page] 
 
 
————————————————— 
109 SEIA Comments at 4.  

--- PAGE 30 ---
 
 
 
30 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
/s/ J. Arnold Quinn 
J. Arnold Quinn 
SVP of Regulatory Policy 
Andrew Weinstein 
Vice President, FERC Market Policy 
325 7th Street NW 
Suite 520 
Washington, DC 20004 
arnie.quinn@vistracorp.com 
andrew.weinstein@vistracorp.com  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated:  December 5, 2025
_____________ 
Nicholas M. Gladd 
Sarah Greenberg 
Rachel Neuburger 
Catherine Mansur 
Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati 
1700 K Street NW 
Fifth Floor 
Washington, DC 20006 
(617) 598-7871 
ngladd@wsgr.com 
sgreenberg@wsgr.com 
rneuburger@wsgr.com 
cmansur@wsgr.com 
 
Counsel for Vistra Corp. 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 31 ---
 
 
 
31 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
 
I hereby certify that I have this day served the foregoing document upon each person 
designated on the official service lists compiled by the Secretary of the Commission in these 
proceedings. 
 
Dated: December 5, 2025 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 
/s/ Rachel Neuburger 
Rachel Neuburger 
Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati 
1700 K Street NW 
Fifth Floor 
Washington, DC 20006 
 
  
 
 
 
 
