--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
 
November 20, 2025 
 
 
 
Ms. Debbie-Anne A. Reese, Secretary 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
888 First Street NE 
Washington, DC  20426 
 
 
Re: Comments of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in Response to the Federal 
Energy Regulatory Commission’s Notice Inviting Comments; Interconnection of 
Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
Dear Secretary Reese: 
 
 
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce appreciates the opportunity to submit these 
comments in response to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (“FERC” or 
“Commission”) October 27, 2025, Notice Inviting Comments issued in response to the 
Secretary of Energy’s October 23, 2025 letter, promulgated under Section 403 of the 
Department of Energy Organization Act, which proposes to FERC an advance notice of 
proposed rulemaking relating to the interconnection of large loads to the FERC-
jurisdictional transmission system (the “ANOPR”). We commend the Commission for 
initiating this important proceeding to address the challenges and opportunities 
associated with the interconnection of large loads to the electric grid.   
 
The Chamber brings the unique perspective of counting among its members not 
just many of the electricity providers and technology companies that are key 
stakeholders to the large load interconnection process, but also the numerous 
electricity customers who count on affordable and reliable energy to support their 
businesses and livelihoods. As such, the Chamber presents a broad voice across the 
expansive ecosystem of entities that stand to benefit from the modernization and 
expansion of the power grid driven by emerging and anticipated increases in 
electricity demand. 
 
The interconnection of large loads, such as data centers, advanced 
manufacturing plants, and other high-demand facilities, represents a critical 
component of the evolving energy landscape. These facilities are essential to 
supporting economic growth and technological innovation. With respect to data 

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
centers, in particular, the ability to support and grow the infrastructure necessary to 
sustain global leadership in artificial intelligence (AI) is nothing short of a national 
security imperative. Winning the AI race is the only option. However, the integration of 
these large loads into the grid requires careful planning, coordination, and regulatory 
oversight to ensure reliability, resource adequacy, and affordability for all electricity 
customers. 
 
The Chamber is generally supportive of the Commission’s efforts, in part due to 
the Department of Energy’s entreaty, to explore reforms that have the potential to 
enhance the interconnection process for large loads. It should be recognized, 
however, that the preexisting process, handled primarily on a state-level basis, is not 
broken everywhere. Many large loads have been and continue to be connected at the 
transmission level nationwide. Thus, any reforms proposed or implemented because of 
this proceeding should be mindful to not upend the progress that is currently being 
made to interconnect large loads across the country; new delays should not 
inadvertently be imposed by reforms intended to achieve the opposite result. As such, 
the Chamber supports FERC’s judicious use of its rulemaking authority, potentially 
applied on a regional versus national scope, as ultimately deemed just and 
reasonable, to remove identified barriers to the interconnection of large loads. 
     
A. General Considerations to Support Large Load Interconnections 
 
Certain underlying concepts should be followed as the Commission formulates 
a rulemaking in this proceeding because the interconnection of large loads – and 
especially data centers – represents a far broader scope of policy considerations 
across different sectors of the government and the economy. The below principles are 
offered to guide the Commission’s development of a formal rulemaking proposal 
aimed to accelerate the interconnection of large loads: 
 
1. Streamlined Interconnection Processes: The Commission should 
prioritize reforms that reduce delays and administrative burdens in 
the interconnection process, including through the potential adoption 
of AI technologies to support the automation and acceleration of 
required studies, consistent with prudent utility practice. Consistent 
with the need for broader permitting reform across the federal 
government, streamlined procedures from FERC will enable large 
loads to come online more quickly, supporting economic development 
and grid modernization. Overall permitting reform can facilitate the 
electric transmission infrastructure that is necessary to support these 
new interconnections and the economic development that these new 
facilities will provide. The Chamber strongly supports predictability, 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
efficiency, transparency, and stakeholder input as key principles 
upon which such reforms should be built.1  
 
2. Cost Allocation Transparency: It is essential that the costs 
associated with interconnecting large loads are allocated in a fair and 
transparent manner. Clear cost allocation methodologies will provide 
certainty to large load customers and generation and transmission 
developers and ensure that costs are equitably allocated, as 
appropriate, across relevant stakeholder constituencies. When 
consistent with reliable utility operations, the adoption of advanced 
grid management technologies such as dynamic line ratings and 
high-performance conductors should be considered when cost-
effective.   
 
3. Grid Reliability and Resilience: The integration of large loads must 
not compromise grid reliability or resilience. The Commission should 
ensure the grid can accommodate these loads without adverse 
impacts on existing customers or the overall integrity of the grid. 
 
4. Stakeholder Engagement: The Commission should continue to 
engage with a broad range of stakeholders, including utilities, large 
load developers, state regulators, and consumer advocates, to ensure 
that any forthcoming proposed and final rules reflect diverse 
perspectives and addresses practical implementation challenges. 
 
5. Support for Innovation: The interconnection process should 
encourage the adoption of innovative technologies and practices, 
such as expanded use of voluntary demand response programs, 
energy storage, hybrid facilities, and advanced grid management 
systems, provided that such options are amenable to all directly 
impacted entities, to optimize the integration of large loads. 
 
The Chamber also encourages the Commission to consider the interplay 
between this ANOPR and other ongoing and recently completed rulemakings, such as 
those related to regional transmission planning and generator interconnection within 
regions and more broadly. In addition, to develop additional clarity regarding large load 
interconnections, the Commission should promptly finalize its pending proceeding 
regarding the colocation of generation with such large loads. A holistic approach is 
 
1 The Chamber’s “Permit America to Build” initiative is focused on bolstering America’s strength and 
competitiveness by modernizing the permitting process necessary to build critical infrastructure.  See 
https://www.uschamber.com/major-initiative/permit-america-to-build.  

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
necessary to ensure that the Commission’s policies are aligned and mutually 
reinforcing. 
 
B. Specific Recommended Enhancements to the ANOPR 
 
The ANOPR sets forth a set of fourteen principles from the Department of 
Energy that are intended to guide the Commission’s development of a formal 
rulemaking addressing the interconnection of large loads. The Chamber provides 
suggestions, based upon its conversations across the key stakeholder groups 
implicated by the ANOPR, as to modifications and enhancements that would enhance 
large load interconnections and fulfill the intended goals outlined therein. 
 
The second principle within the ANOPR proposes to align the application of 
new large load interconnection policies and procedures with the 20MW floor provided 
for the Commission’s pro forma large generator interconnection agreement and 
procedures. Given the realities of the typical characteristics of a new “large load,” and 
to ensure that any new “large load” interconnection queue is not overwhelmed by the 
quantity of requests, the Chamber recommends that the floor for “large load” 
interconnections be raised to 75 or 100 MW. An increased minimum threshold would 
better reflect the scale of modern large load projects, ensuring that regulatory 
frameworks are aligned with current and future industry needs. Moreover, large loads 
at the 75-100 MW level, have a greater potential to significantly impact grid 
operations. Establishing a higher minimum threshold will allow grid operators to focus 
their resources and attention on what are more likely to be truly impactful 
interconnections, avoiding unnecessary administrative burdens for smaller loads that 
may not pose the same challenges. 
The ANOPR’s fourth principle should be strengthened to include study 
deposits, readiness requirements, and withdrawal penalties that enhance the veracity 
and transparency of the load growth currently anticipated across the power grid.  
These thresholds should not serve to deter legitimate entry into interconnection 
queues, but they should be designed to disincentivize the submission of multiple 
interconnection requests for what will ultimately result in a single large load – either 
across one or multiple different transmission providers. The timing and supply chain 
challenges of meeting new demand is significant enough; duplicative and illusory large 
loads should not proliferate in a manner that leads to the inefficient distribution of the 
intellectual and physical resources necessary to meet unprecedented demand growth. 
 
With respect to hybrid facilities more generally, stakeholders agree that many 
of these configurations may be best implemented as temporary – rather than 
permanent – solutions to bring large loads online in a timely fashion. Such hybrid 
options should be available on a voluntary basis when the sought “speed to power” for 
a large load is not otherwise available, and the simultaneous study of load and 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
generation behind a single point of interconnection has merit. Stakeholders agree on 
the unsurpassed reliability, efficiency, and power quality value of the interconnected 
power grid. Thus, while temporary and more limited electricity offtake might initially be 
required, full grid interconnection and reliable electric service are often the preferred 
final results on both sides of a large load interconnection. 
 
Regarding the ANOPR’s eighth principle, our members agree that all 
stakeholders should pay their attributed share of any large load interconnection. The 
devil may be in the details of any specific interconnection of load to the transmission 
system, but large loads are committed to paying their full cost of service for the energy 
and infrastructure supporting the electric service they require. Ultimately, large load 
interconnections should result in lower, rather than elevated, electricity rates for all 
other customers. The Commission’s efforts to streamline large load interconnections 
should ensure that costs are allocated commensurate with the benefits received from 
any needed network upgrades.  
 
In addition, the thirteenth principle foreshadows the complexities that could 
emerge if a new, more standardized large load interconnection process is 
implemented in real time as preexisting requests progress toward their individual 
connections to the grid. As it moves forward with the rulemaking process, it is 
important that the Commission be mindful that reforms aimed at shortening the 
interconnection of large loads could result in lengthened timelines for such requests 
that are already pending. To counteract any such unintended consequences, the 
Commission should commit specific attention to ensuring that any new 
interconnection queues or processes not be developed or implemented in a way that 
unduly delays or interrupts pending requests. Moreover, flexibility should be provided 
– consistent with the final paragraph of the ANOPR – to ensure that equivalent or 
superior solutions to large load interconnection can be continued or newly developed 
on a utility-specific or larger regional bases, as appropriate.       
 
C. Conclusion 
 
In conclusion, we commend the Department of Energy and the Commission for 
their leadership in addressing the interconnection of large loads. This ANOPR 
represents a valuable step toward ensuring that the grid can accommodate the 
demands of a rapidly changing energy landscape while maintaining reliability and 
affordability. We look forward to continuing to engage with the Commission on this 
important issue. 
 
 

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
If you have any questions or need additional information, please contact Heath 
Knakmuhs, Vice President and Policy Counsel of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s 
Global Energy Institute, at hknakmuhs@uschamber.com or (202) 463-5874.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marty Durbin 
 
 
 
 
 
Senior Vice President, Policy 
 
 
 
 
 
President, Global Energy Institute 
 
 
 
 
 
U.S. Chamber of Commerce  
 
