--- PAGE 1 ---
 
P a g e  | 1 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
 
) 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Interstate Transmission System 
 
 
) 
 
INITIAL COMMENTS OF CALIBRANT ENERGY HOLDINGS, LLC 
Calibrant Energy Holdings, LLC (“Calibrant”) supports the action taken by Secretary 
Wright to address the interconnection of large loads. The letter appropriately recognizes the 
benefits of large load flexibility and recommends an expedited interconnection study process for 
loads that are curtailable or co-located with generation or energy storage. We’re pleased that the 
Commission has responded quickly by opening this docket and by providing an opportunity for 
public comment. In these comments, we recommend five specific actions that the Commission 
should take and then provide direct feedback on several of the principles offered in the Advanced 
Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”).  
In the final rule, the Commission should:  
1. Ensure a transparent interconnection process for large loads, where the transmission 
owners and regional system operators (“RTO/ISOs”) provide customers with the specific 
constraints, system conditions, and/or the hours that are driving the need for new system 
upgrades and investment. The clear identification of system needs will allow customers to 
develop solutions to address those needs. Without visibility into what is causing the system 
to bind, customers will be unable to develop alternative solutions, leading to delayed 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
P a g e  | 2 
 
interconnections, economic loss, and potentially an overbuilt, unnecessarily expensive 
electric system.  
2. Require that the transmission owners and RTO/ISOs study load flexibility (including 
hybrid configurations of load including generation or energy storage) as part of the load 
interconnection process and identify the amount of flexibility needed to avoid each system 
constraint identified in the study.   
3. Provide a pathway for large load customers to propose, develop, and implement load 
flexibility solutions (including hybrid configurations of load including generation or 
energy storage) to defer or avoid the need for, some or all, new infrastructure if the 
customer commits to providing flexibility during the hours or system conditions identified 
during the study process. Load flexibility solutions should be considered on equal footing 
to traditional infrastructure solutions in system planning processes.  The Commission 
should require system planners to include this flexibility into their system planning 
processes and develop operational tools to dispatch flexibility to match modeled 
performance. 
• Customers’ commitments should be binding for the needs identified by the 
interconnection study; however, these commitments should not prohibit large load 
customers or hybrid facilities from providing additional market services (and being 
appropriately compensated) during other periods when capable of doing so. 
4. Recognize that load flexibility (including hybrid configurations of load including 
generation or energy storage) may also allow a large load to interconnect provisionally 
while needed infrastructure is built for firm service to create a path for large loads to come 
online quickly but reliably in the interim. The Commission should require a specific step 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
P a g e  | 3 
 
at the end of the interconnection study process to identify the capability to connect a large 
load that is willing to commit to flexibility in a provisional manner, as infrastructure is built 
to serve large load customers on a fully firm basis.     
5. Maintain clear, fair RTO-level cost allocation mechanisms that reflect customers’ 
contributions to the drivers of new infrastructure. While states will maintain jurisdiction 
over retail rates, RTOs can allocate costs to Load Serving Entities in a manner that better 
aligns cost causation and cost allocation. The grid will be more affordable if price signals 
encourage behavior that reduces the need for additional infrastructure.  
The wholesale markets have offered a place for customers to bring creative solutions to 
meet the system’s needs cost-effectively. While this marketplace for innovation is available for 
many market services, a similar opportunity for transmission service does not exist for load 
customers because of the inflexible and opaque way in which load connection studies are 
conducted. The Commission is right to exert its authority over the load interconnection process 
and can establish a new process which will encourage market participants to bring forward the 
most cost-effective solutions. The Commission can do so by ensuring that all parties have the 
information they need to develop alternatives and ensuring that these alternatives will be 
considered on equal footing to traditional rate-regulated transmission investment.  
Pacific Gas & Electric’s (“PG&E”) “Flex Connect” Program offers the Commission a 
useful model for the transparency they should require of Transmission Owners.  In constrained 
areas of PG&E’s grid, PG&E identifies the hours and amount that customers need to curtail (or 
otherwise provide flexibility from on-site energy generation or storage) if they wish to defer 
upgrades and interconnect immediately. Figure 1 includes a graphic from a PG&E filing that 
summarized the program. In this example, the large load must modify its grid usage (to some 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
P a g e  | 4 
 
degree) from 4PM-11PM in July, August, and September to defer or avoid the need for new 
infrastructure. By providing this transparency, customers can connect faster to the grid, and the 
grid becomes more affordable1. Similar solutions have been developed on a larger scale as well, 
including Calibrant and Aligned Data Centers’s project in the Pacific Northwest2, where a 31 MW 
/ 62 MWh battery energy storage system will enable the facility to come online and scale 
operations years earlier than would be possible with traditional utility upgrades.  
 
Figure 1: Heatmap from a 2024 filing by the Joint IOUs in California3. 
We expect that many other parties will recognize the significance of this proceeding and 
the opportunity the Commission has to support the next wave of market development. Some have 
already started. This includes the questions and answers posed by the Nicholas Institute, Former 
Commissioner Clements, and Roselle, LLP in “How DOE’s Proposed Large Load Interconnection 
 
1 https://www.pge.com/assets/pge/docs/clean-energy/electric-vehicles/flexible-service-connection-pilot-overview.pdf  
2 https://aligneddc.com/blog/aligned-and-calibrant-to-deploy-first-of-its-kind-energy-solution/  
3 Vehicle-Grid Integration Forum Workshop Report. Filed By Southern California Edison Company (U 338-E),  San 
Diego Gas & Electric Company (U 902 E), And  Pacific Gas And Electric Company (U 39 E).  Rulemaking 23-12-
008. May 21, 2024. P. 64  https://docs.cpuc.ca.gov/PublishedDocs/Efile/G000/M532/K262/532262533.PDF  

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
P a g e  | 5 
 
Process Could Unlock the Benefits of Load Flexibility”4, which recognize that the seventh 
principle in the ANOPR “opened the door to a powerful concept” and that “rules that enable large 
loads to curtail their consumption of energy from the grid at key times can unlock important 
benefits, from faster interconnection times to avoided infrastructure and, therefore, lower rates.” 
The recommendations in this report mirror ours above including creating a clear set of rules to 
determine what system conditions would require a large load to curtail to avoid or defer 
transmission upgrades, a study process which incorporates this flexibility, and the ability to obtain 
non-firm interconnection rights. This report also recognizes that there are multiple meaningful 
ways to achieve flexibility commitments from customers, including across the “locational stack” 
as Luminary Strategies calls it in their post on “DOE’s To-Do List on Load Flexibility Support for 
Speed to Power”5. Luminary appropriately recognizes that while transmission buildout may 
remain necessary, in parallel we should be focused on enabling “programs that privilege grid-
positive solutions—configurations that make fuller use of the existing grid while the next tranche 
of wires is being developed,” and clearly outlines that these solutions can be developed in 
increasingly expansive power footprints from the node the load is interconnecting to a local pocket 
subject to a common constraint to wider network solutions to the whole-system. The Commission 
should ensure that the outcome of this rulemaking proceeding creates a viable pathway for grid 
planners to capitalize on load flexibility from a technical and procedural standpoint, reframing 
large load additions not as a challenge, but part of the solution to a more efficient grid. Calibrant 
supports the comments of others in this proceeding, including the Advanced Energy Management 
Alliance and EmeraldAI, and looks forward to continuing to engage with the Commission in this 
 
4 https://nicholasinstitute.duke.edu/sites/default/files/publications/how-does-proposed-large-load-interconnection-
process-could-unlock-benefits-load-flexibility.pdf  
5 https://luminarystrategies.substack.com/p/does-to-do-list-on-load-flexibility?utm_source=activity_item  
 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
P a g e  | 6 
 
proceeding to develop a process which will better utilize our existing infrastructure and allow the 
United States to continue to be a leader in data center technology.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/ Matthew Barnes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chief Commercial Officer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Calibrant Energy 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Matthew.Barnes@calibrantenergy.com 
 
 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
P a g e  | 7 
 
 
Calibrant’s initial comments on a selection of the 14 principles included in the ANOPR 
Principle 
Calibrant Comments 
1 
First, to avoid even arguably affecting the 
States' jurisdiction over generation 
facilities, facilities used in local 
distribution or only for the transmission of 
electric energy in intrastate commerce, or 
transmissions consumed by the 
transmitter. The Commission's jurisdiction 
should be limited to interconnections 
directly to transmission facilities, 
consistent with the Commission's seven-
factor test. 
The Commission should require each 
transmission owner and/or RTO/ISO to 
publish and maintain a list of transmission 
facilities which meet the criteria of being a 
transmission facility for purposes of 
determining jurisdiction of load 
interconnection, so that market participants 
know whether their interconnection request 
would be subject to the Commission’s 
jurisdiction before submitting an 
application. 
3 
Third, to the extent practicable, load and 
hybrid facilities should be studied 
together with generating facilities. Such 
an approach will allow for efficient siting 
of loads and generating facilities and 
thereby minimize the need for costly 
network upgrades. For example, siting a 
large load near or at the same point of 
interconnection as a new generating 
facility could reduce the network 
upgrades needed to interconnect only the 
load or only the generating facility. 
The Commission should avoid intertwining 
the generation and load interconnection 
study processes in a way that materially 
slows the process of interconnecting loads 
or generation.  
 
The Commission could consider expanding 
the definition of a hybrid facility to load 
and generation (or energy storage) 
interconnecting at the same electrical 
location but not behind a common 
interconnection point if the load and 
generation (or energy storage) submit a 
single interconnection request. 
Coordinating the interconnection of load 
and generation (or energy storage) behind a 
common constraint will result in a more 
efficient use of the system.     
5 
Fifth, hybrid facilities should be studied 
based on the amount of injection and/or 
withdrawal rights requested. For example, 
a hybrid facility consisting of a 500 MW 
load and a 600MW generating facility 
may seek no withdrawal rights and 
100MW of injection rights. This provides 
incentives for co-location with new 
generation facilities and ensures efficient 
buildout of the transmission system. 
The Commission should ensure that the 
study process reflects the expected 
operating characteristics of the generation 
(or energy storage) and the load. The study 
process should provide a pathway for load 
and hybrid facilities to request that 
flexibility and specific operating 
characteristics be incorporated into study 
assumptions. Solutions that incorporate 
load flexibility (including hybrid 
configurations of load including generation 
or energy storage)  should be treated on 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
P a g e  | 8 
 
Principle 
Calibrant Comments 
equal footing as traditional transmission 
infrastructure solutions.    
 
Interconnection rights need to neither be 
firm nor static for the entire year nor the 
same every year. Load customers should be 
able to specify a willingness to be non-firm 
while infrastructure is being built to 
accommodate the fully firm project.  
7 
Seventh, the interconnection study of 
large loads that agree to be curtailable and 
hybrid facilities that agree to be 
curtailable and dispatchable should be 
expedited. The system operator's ability to 
control such facilities through curtailment 
and/or dispatch must be sufficient for the 
system operator to integrate the facility 
into both operations and system planning. 
This ensures the timely and orderly 
addition of large loads to the transmission 
system in a safe, reliable, and non-
discriminatory manner. We seek comment 
on whether this should be accomplished 
through a serial interconnection study 
process or by some other means. We also 
seek comment on appropriate deadlines 
for such an expedited study process, 
including whether such studies can be 
completed in 60 days. 
In addition to expediting the study, the 
Commission should direct the ISOs/RTOs 
to expedite the interconnection process for 
large loads that agree to be flexible. 
Customers should be allowed to use load 
flexibility (including hybrid configurations 
of load including generation or energy 
storage to enable flexibility) to interconnect 
provisionally to the system while needed 
infrastructure is being built to achieve a 
higher level of transmission service.   
 
In order for load flexibility to be accounted 
for in system planning and operations, 
customers need to be fully visible to and 
dispatchable by system operators. However, 
system operators do not need direct control 
over customer facilities in order to be 
confident in their performance for purposes 
of system planning, similar to other market 
resources.   
 
Large loads should be held accountable for 
providing flexibility during the time 
periods where they have agreed to be 
flexible but should also be allowed to 
provide other market services to the extent 
that they are eligible and able to do so.    
 
The Commission should study loads and 
hybrid facilities which are not seeking 
injection rights serially.  
8 
Eighth, load and hybrid facilities should 
be responsible for 100% of the network 
upgrades that they are assigned through 
the interconnection studies. We seek 
The Commission should ensure that cost 
allocation to large load customers for 
transmission service associated with 
infrastructure not assigned through the 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
P a g e  | 9 
 
Principle 
Calibrant Comments 
comment on whether such costs should be 
offset through a crediting mechanism and, 
if so, over how many years. 
interconnection study process is being 
allocated to those large load customers in a 
manner that appropriately reflects cost-
causation principles. If new large loads are 
taking transmission service through a 
FERC jurisdictional interconnection 
process, then this process should cover all 
aspects of transmission service.  
11 
Eleventh, utilities serving large loads, 
including those at hybrid facilities, should 
be responsible for transmission service 
based on their withdrawal rights, as that 
value amount reflects the quantity of 
capacity and energy that is being 
transmitted across the transmission 
system to the load. 
Transmission service should be assessed 
based on cost-causation principles and not 
based on maximum withdrawal rights. 
Transmission service is typically assessed 
upon customers’ contribution to coincident 
peak demand. The transmission owners and 
RTO/ISOs should determine which periods 
or system conditions drive the need for 
system investment and assess costs based 
on those periods of time. This creates clear 
pricing signals to incentivize behavior 
which will reduce the need for additional 
investment.  
12 
Twelfth, utilities serving large loads, 
including those at hybrid facilities, should 
be responsible for ancillary services based 
on peak demand, without consideration of 
any co-located generation. Any co-located 
generating facilities will similarly be fully 
compensated for the provision of ancillary 
services. 
The Commission should be clear on the 
definition of peak demand. Similar to 
transmission service, utilities serving large 
loads should be responsible for services 
based on cost-causation principles.  
13 
Thirteenth, there must be a plan to 
implement these proposed reforms. We 
seek comment on appropriate transition 
plans, including the treatment of large 
load interconnections that are already 
being studied for interconnection. 
The implementation of a new process 
should not materially slow or hinder the 
interconnection of large loads that have an 
interconnection request with their local 
utility at the time that an RTO/ISO receives 
approval on compliance associated with 
any final rule.  
 
 
 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
P a g e  | 10 
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
In accordance with 18 C.F.R. § 385.2010, I hereby certify that I have, on this 21st day of 
November 2025, caused a copy of the foregoing Initial Comments of Calibrant Energy Holdings, 
LLC to be served on each person designated on the official service list compiled by the Secretary 
of FERC in Docket No. RM26-4-000. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/ Matthew Barnes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chief Commercial Officer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Calibrant Energy 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Matthew.Barnes@calibrantenergy.com 
 
 
 
