--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
Interconnection of Large Loads  
to the Interstate Transmission System 
 
)  
)  
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL COMMENTS OF 
CONSTELLATION ENERGY GENERATION, LLC  
Constellation submits these supplemental comments to outline a new, reliable, speed-to-
service option pairing new generation with large loads at existing power plant sites of at least the 
same size,1 and to urge this option’s inclusion in the Commission’s next steps on the Advanced 
Notice of Proposed Rulemaking.2 This proposal achieves Secretary Wright’s objective “to ensure 
efficient, timely, and non-discriminatory [large] load interconnections”3 by adding paired new 
generation and load without changing injection rights or creating withdrawal rights at existing 
generation sites. This new generator/load configuration will speed up the ability for new generation 
to come online by avoiding net injections or withdrawals of power at the existing Point of 
Interconnection outside the scenarios that have already been studied and found to be reliable at the 
existing generator’s interconnection.4 Appropriate system protection equipment will be in place to 
make certain this condition is met, ensuring that there are no negative reliability implications for 
other customers or the grid. 
 
1 See Load-Contingent New Capacity at Existing Plants (LCEP) – A Speed to Power Pathway, Constellation Energy 
Generation LLC (“Constellation LCEP Presentation”), Att. A hereto. 
2 Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, Docket No. RM26-4 (Oct. 27, 2025) (“ANOPR”).  
3 Letter from Chris Wright, Sec’y, U.S. Dep’t of Energy to FERC Commissioners, at 2 (Oct. 23, 2025) (“Secretary’s 
Letter”). 
4 Under ANOPR Principle 5, there would be no change to “the amount of injection and/or withdrawal rights requested” 
from those already governing the existing interconnection. ANOPR at ¶ 22. 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
2 
This new service for “Load-Contingent New Capacity at Existing Plants” (“LCEP”) is 
conceptually aligned with “Surplus Interconnection Service”5 and, like that service, is principally 
intended “to realize the benefits of an efficiently-used transmission system.”6 LCEP Service will 
allow an expedited interconnection process for paired new generation and load combinations at 
existing generation sites similar to the process currently utilized for Surplus Interconnection 
Service.7 Just as Surplus Interconnection Service is not a replacement for Interconnection Service,8 
LCEP Service is also not a replacement for Interconnection Service, but rather is a faster option 
for critical new infrastructure. LCEP Service can be maintained for an extended period or the 
LCEP generation resource can seek energy injection rights or be transitioned to a standard capacity 
resource once the appropriate pre-conditions are satisfied. The benefit of LCEP Service is that it 
will help achieve the Secretary’s goals of adding both new generation and load on the system 
quickly without affecting the integrity of the existing network as previously studied and 
maintained.  
Any final rule on the ANOPR must find that existing tariffs are unjust and unreasonable 
because they fail to meet “unprecedented current and expected growth of large loads seeking to 
interconnect to the transmission system” and find that new “standardize[d] interconnection 
procedures and agreements for such loads, including those seeking to share a point of 
interconnection with new or existing generation facilities (hybrid facilities)” are required.9 This 
 
5 Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the definitions provided to them in the pro forma LGIP. 
6 Reform of Generator Interconnection Procedures & Agreements, Order No. 845, 163 FERC ¶ 61,043, at P 483 
(2018) (“Order No. 845”). 
7 See id. PP 486-88.   
8 See id. P 482 (Surplus Interconnection Service “does not restrict a new interconnection customer’s ability to submit 
an interconnection request for any requested point of interconnection directly with the transmission provider”).  
9 ANOPR at ¶ 12 (emphasis added). 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
3 
FPA section 206 prong one showing10 includes record evidence in this proceeding that the current 
rules underutilize existing infrastructure,11 including by failing to accommodate the pairing of new 
generator/load combinations at existing generators’ Points of Interconnection when the 
combination will create no new thermal power flow conditions that have not already been studied 
and will result in no net injections onto the system. The record here supports findings similar to 
those in Order No. 2023 that existing rules “are insufficient to ensure that interconnection 
customers are able to interconnect to the transmission system in a reliable, efficient, transparent, 
and timely manner.”12 The Wall Street Journal this week reported that a “JP Morgan analysis last 
month found that more than 60% of data-center capacity planned for completion in 2027 isn’t yet 
under construction, and another 7% is delayed,”13 pointing to delays in accessing power as the 
primary culprit. 
 
10 Under prong one of the analysis under section 206 of the Federal Power Act (“FPA”), the Commission must establish 
by a preponderance of evidence that the LGIP “is unjust, unreasonable, unduly discriminatory, or preferential.” 16 
U.S.C. § 824e(a)-(b). 
11 See, e.g., Reply Comments of Verrus at 2 (Dec. 5, 2025) (“Existing rules generally fail to distinguish between loads 
that strain the grid and loads that possess the physical capability to support it. By treating these fundamentally 
different asset classes identically, the current framework forces flexible loads to cross-subsidize inflexible ones, 
requiring customers who can operationally avoid the need for network upgrades to pay for infrastructure that is only 
necessary for their inflexible peers. Furthermore, it forces these agile resources to wait in queues behind projects 
requiring years of costly upgrades, rather than allowing them to connect quickly by leveraging the underutilized 
non-peak grid capacity already in place.”); Reply Comments of Vistra Corp. at 2 (Dec. 5, 2025) (“To win the AI 
race, the United States needs to maximize the use of the infrastructure that we already have, in the short term, while 
building out a more robust electric grid in the medium-to-long term.”); Reply Comments of Google LLC at 5 (Dec. 
5, 2025) (“To ensure our national competitiveness, the United States must focus on expediting the development and 
interconnection of large loads, including data centers, that maximize the use of existing transmission infrastructure 
and minimize strain on the grid.”); Reply Comments of GridCARE at 2 (Dec. 5, 2025) (“Interconnecting large AI 
loads through existing infrastructure—where operationally feasible—can reduce systemwide costs by improving 
asset utilization, increasing utility revenues without imposing new costs on existing customers, and supporting future 
capital investments.”); Comments of Public Interest Organizations at 6-7 (Nov. 21, 2025) (“Connecting load centers 
to regions with excess supply power can reduce costs and avoid redundant infrastructure by allowing regions to 
share their generating resources.”); Joint Comments of the Distributed Capacity Parties at 6 (Nov. 21, 2025) 
(“Similarly, siting a new large load while considering the location of installed but underutilized grid resources and 
proposed aggregations of the same can save on network upgrades.”). 
12 Improvements to Generator Interconnection Procedures & Agreements, Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054, at 
P 37 (2023) (“Order No. 2023”). 
13 Katherine Blunt, America’s Data Center Build-Out Is Falling Way Behind Schedule, WALL ST. J. (June 2, 2026). 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
4 
The Commission should include consideration of LCEP Service as a key part of its 
proposed replacement rate under any action taken in response to the ANOPR. LCEP Service is 
one of the simplest and most efficient ways to achieve speed-to-service without jeopardizing 
reliability or increasing costs to other customers. It also fits “squarely” within the Commission’s 
jurisdictional authority since service at the existing Point of Interconnection with the Transmission 
System is the issue under consideration.14  
In addition to being a just and reasonable part of any replacement rate, LCEP Service also 
is fully responsive to the ANOPR’s directives and principles, including to study load together with 
Generating Facilities, given “siting a large load near or at the same point of interconnection as a 
new generating facility could reduce the network upgrades needed to interconnect only the load or 
only the generating facility” (Third Principle), and incentivizing co-location which can “ensure[] 
efficient buildout of the transmission system” (Fifth Principle).15 The Commission has also looked 
favorably on novel generator/load connection arrangements recently.16 Accordingly, the 
Commission should include an LCEP Service option in its next steps on the ANOPR. 
COMMENTS 
Just months ago, in furtherance of the ANOPR, the Commission declared “there is an 
urgent need for thoughtful reforms to ensure that large loads are ‘able to connect to the 
transmission system in a timely, orderly, and non-discriminatory manner.’”17 The Commission 
 
14 Secretary Letter at 1; see also ANOPR at ¶ 18 (Principle One is that “the Commission’s jurisdiction should be 
limited to interconnections directly to transmission facilities, consistent with the Commission’s seven-factor test”). 
15 See id. at ¶¶ 20, 22. 
16 See, e.g., Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 194 FERC ¶ 61,192 (2026) (establishing a Consolidated Planning Process 
framework to streamline SPP’s regional transmission planning and generator interconnection processes.). 
17 Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, 195 FERC ¶ 61,045, at P 2 (2026) (“Order 
Regarding Intent to Act”). 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
5 
also announced it will “address” the problems identified by the ANOPR “in a manner that is quick, 
efficient, and legally durable” and called upon stakeholders to help achieve this goal.18 In support 
of this goal, Constellation developed the LCEP proposal. It is rooted in ANOPR Principles 3 
and 5,19 which discuss the benefits of studying new generation and load pairings20 together based 
on the exact rights that they are seeking from the Transmission Provider.   
New generation and load pairings have unique technical and operational characteristics and 
impacts depending on where those pairings are located. When located at a new Point of 
Interconnection to the grid, they can be delayed by long lead times for system reinforcements 
resolving thermal violations identified during interconnection studies. By contrast, when those 
pairings are sited at an existing generator’s Point of Interconnection and fall within the study 
parameters reflected by that existing generator’s interconnection, they benefit from the studies and 
upgrades already completed for that existing generator and can come on-line more rapidly without 
jeopardizing reliability.21 While the new LCEP Service interconnection process would still 
conduct all studies necessary to ensure reliability, the evaluation of new generation-load pairings 
at existing generation, falling within parameters that already have been studied, will speed their 
interconnection.  
 
18 Id. P 4. 
19 ANOPR at ¶ 20 (Principle 3 stating “load and hybrid facilities should be studied together with generating facilities”); 
id. at ¶ 22 (Principle 5 stating “hybrid facilities should be studied based on the amount of injection and/or withdrawal 
rights requested”). 
20 Id. at ¶ 20 (“siting a large load near or at the same point of interconnection as a new generating facility could reduce 
the network upgrades needed to interconnect only the load or only the generating facility”); id. at ¶ 22 (“This 
provides incentives for co-location with new generation facilities and ensures efficient buildout of the transmission 
system.”). 
21 See Constellation LCEP Presentation at 3-4. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
6 
As discussed in the ANOPR, and in the Commission’s landmark Order No. 845 and Order 
No. 2023,22 the Commission can address persistent and worsening interconnection backlogs by 
“standardiz[ing] interconnection procedures and agreements for such loads, including those 
seeking to share a point of interconnection with new or existing generation facilities.”23 One 
pathway for doing so is to revise the pro forma Large Generator Interconnection Procedures 
(“LGIP”) to allow new generation and load pairings to leverage an existing generator’s Point of 
Interconnection. We call this option Load-Contingent New Capacity at Existing Plants or the 
“LCEP Service.” It is load-contingent because, without the pairing with new load at the same Point 
of Interconnection, the new generator would not fall within the parameters that already have been 
studied.   
Similar to Surplus Interconnection Service,24 the Commission can establish the LCEP 
Service using its powers under section 206 of the FPA to revise the pro forma LGIP to require 
Transmission Providers to provide a LCEP Service process. While the LCEP Service is not 
capitalizing on unused headroom at the Point of Interconnection in the same way as Surplus 
Interconnection, it is similar to Surplus Interconnection Service in that any net injections or 
withdrawals from the grid are within the scope of those scenarios that have already been studied 
and planned for.   
 
22 Order No. 845, 163 FERC ¶ 61,043 at P 37 (finding “the current interconnection process may hinder timely 
development of new generation, stifle competition, result in uncertainty and inaccurate information, or potentially 
unduly discriminate against new technologies”) (citations omitted); Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054 at P 37 
(concluding “pursuant to FPA section 206, … that certain revisions to the pro forma open access transmission tariff 
and the Commission’s regulations are necessary to ensure rates that are just, reasonable, and not unduly 
discriminatory or preferential.”) 
23 ANOPR at ¶ 12. 
24 Order No. 845, 163 FERC ¶ 61,043 at PP 453-509. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
7 
I. The Existing pro forma LGIP are Unjust and Unreasonable and Unduly Discriminatory 
Because They Fail to Accommodate Paired New Generation and Load at Existing 
Generation Sites 
 
Any proposed rulemaking is grounded in the Commission’s Federal Power Act section 206 
authority. First, the Commission must establish by a preponderance of evidence that the existing 
rules are “unjust, unreasonable, unduly discriminatory, or preferential.”25  
There is overwhelming record evidence in this proceeding that the current rules 
underutilize existing infrastructure26 and result in years-long delays to serve large new loads.27 The 
 
25 16 U.S.C. § 824e(a)-(b). 
26 See supra at 3, n.11 (citing record support). 
27 See, e.g., Michael Kormos, The Co-Located Load Solution, Docket No. AD24-11-000, at 2 (Nov. 4, 2024) (“The 
standard utility models are struggling to accommodate large data center projects on a workable timeline, and can 
take five years or longer.”); Intersect Power, LLC Comments, Docket No. AD24-11-000 (Dec. 9, 2024), at 2 (“Large 
loads face backlogs and multi-year delays, similar to those faced by generating resources in standard interconnection 
processes. Large loads cannot wait years for power supply arrangements, or they risk losing business to their 
competition, including overseas competition.”) (citing Todd Shatzki, Joseph Cavicchi, Megan Accordino, 
CoLocated Load: Market, Economic, and Ratemaking Implications, Analysis Group, at 14 (Oct. 28, 2024) 
(“CoLocated 
Load”), 
https://www.analysisgroup.com/globalassets/insights/publishing/2024_co_located_load_market_economic_and_ra
temaking_implications.pdf); Co-Located Load at 12 (“Several utilities have reported that the expected wait time for 
connecting new large loads is as long as 7 to 10 years. AEP Ohio has responded to the influx of requests by 
suspending acceptance of new load service agreements from data center customers, to give the utility time to study 
the potential impacts of the proposed additions on its transmission and distribution systems.”); id. at 12 n.43 (“Grant 
PUD estimates a wait time of 7-10 years. Dominion Energy expects the time it takes to connect large data centers to 
the electric grid to increase by one to three years amid a surge in requests, bringing the total wait time to as long as 
seven years…. AEP Ohio has stated that, because Central Ohio lacks RTO-controlled generation, serving new data 
center load will require investment in extra high voltage transmission to import power from other parts of the grid. 
That investment, AEP says, could take 7-10 years to plan, design, site, and construct.”); see also Joint Electricity 
Customer Alliance Comments, Docket No. AD24-11-000 (Oct. 30, 2024), at 1 (“When properly executed, co-
location aims to reduce overall costs, not shift them. It is a rational response given the slow pace of transmission and 
generation development across the grid, driven by interconnection delays, for both load and generation, and poor 
regional transmission planning.”); Mainspring Energy, Inc.  Comments, Docket No. EL25-20-000, et al. (April 23, 
2025), at Attachment at 2 (“New load interconnection also faces significant delays. Some data center customers 
report that they’re being given 3-5 year estimates for grid delivery of data center power. For a 100 MW data center, 
assuming US$150,000/MW of revenue per month (~US$150/month/kW), three years of delay translates to over 
US$500M in lost revenue.”); Dr. Paul Stockton, et al. Letter from National Security Experts, Docket No. EL25-20-
000, et al.  (Apr. 22, 2025) at 1 (“In some states, including those in the Eastern US served by PJM Interconnection, 
L.L.C., data centers seeking to connect and take service from the grid may face delays of seven to ten years before 
they can receive power. Those delays are unconscionable, given the DOD’s rapidly growing requirements for AI 
services and the imperative to counter China’s drive for AI primacy.”); Constellation Answer, Docket No. EL25-
20-000, et al. (Apr. 23, 2025), Exh. 1 at 9 n.38 (Declaration of Dr. Paul Stockton); “AI, data center electricity demand 
could drive advanced nuclear investment: NERC head Jim Robb,” Utility Dive (June 6, 2024) (“it takes me about 
 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
8 
record here supports findings similar to those in Order No. 2023 that existing rules “are insufficient 
to ensure that interconnection customers are able to interconnect to the transmission system in a 
reliable, efficient, transparent, and timely manner.”28 Constellation’s analysis identified one 
particular lost opportunity: the current rules do not clearly accommodate the pairing of new 
generator/load combinations at existing generator’s Points of Interconnection that create no new 
thermal power flow conditions which have not already been studied. It is unjust and unreasonable 
not to fully utilize existing infrastructure and proven reliability paths while new load waits for 
service. 
The adoption of Surplus Interconnection Service in Order No. 845 supports finding the pro 
forma LGIP unjust and unreasonable. In Order No. 845, the Commission found that “where proper 
precautions are taken to ensure system reliability, it would be unjust and unreasonable to deny an 
original interconnection customer the ability either to transfer or use for another resource surplus 
interconnection service.”29 This finding rested on the principle that where interconnection capacity 
has already been studied and approved, and where the use of that capacity by an additional resource 
would not increase the total Interconnection Service at the Point of Interconnection or require new 
network upgrades, there is no just or reasonable basis for denying access to that capacity. The same 
principle applies here. Where additional load, paired with new generation, can be served at an 
 
four years to build a substation,” according to David Schleicher, Northern Virginia Electric Cooperative CEO), 
https://www.utilitydive.com/news/ai-datacenter-electricity-demand-advanced-nuclearinvestment-Robb/718181/; 
“Elk Grove Mayor Meets With ComEd on Substations for Data Centers,” Journal & Topics (Mar. 14, 2024) (Mayor 
of Elk Grove, Illinois, “expressed frustration with ComEd, saying the electricity utility was ‘dragging their feet’ in 
building substations to support the growing data center industry”), https://www.journal-topics.com/articles/elk-
grove-mayor-meets-with-comed-on-substations-for-data-centers/); Statement of Cole Muller, Executive Vice 
President of Strategic Ventures Talen Energy Corporation, Docket No. AD24-11, at 2 (Oct. 16, 2024) (“Co-locating 
data center load with generation allows the load to be served efficiently and economically. The alternative in many 
cases is years-long delays to connect in front of the meter, i.e., directly to the grid.”). 
28 Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054 at P 37. 
29 Order No. 845, 163 FERC ¶ 61,043 at P 471. 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
9 
existing Point of Interconnection within the already studied parameters, it is unjust and 
unreasonable that the existing pro forma LGIP does not provide a pathway to do so.   
II. The Commission Should Adopt LCEP or Include it as One of the Proposed Replacement 
Rates 
Once the Commission establishes that the existing rate, in this case the pro forma LGIP, 
“is unjust, unreasonable, unduly discriminatory, or preferential,” it must fix a replacement rate that 
is just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or preferential.30 The Commission’s 
discretion is at its “zenith” when fashioning remedies.31 As a replacement rate, the Commission 
should revise the pro forma LGIP to require Transmission Providers to establish a process for 
LCEP Service at an existing generator’s Point of Interconnection.  
A. LCEP Service is Just and Reasonable and Consistent with Commission 
Precedent 
LCEP Service as outlined here and in Attachment A is just and reasonable and not unduly 
discriminatory or preferential. Like Surplus Interconnection Service, LCEP Service is an expedited 
interconnection process outside of the standard interconnection queue for new generation paired 
with new load at sites with existing generation facilities that have already been studied. By 
leveraging the studies that already have been performed to speed interconnection, the LCEP 
Service would “improve access to the transmission system,” and “reduce costs…by increasing the 
utilization of existing interconnection facilities and network upgrades rather than requiring new 
ones.”32 The LCEP Proposal is animated by and can achieve the goal of speed to power for large 
 
30 16 U.S.C. § 824e(b); see also Emera Maine v. FERC, 854 F.3d 9, 20-27 (D.C. Cir. 2017). 
31 XO Energy Ma, LP v. FERC, 77 F.4th 710, 716 (D.C. Cir. 2023). 
32 Order No. 845, 163 FERC ¶ 61,043 at P 467. 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
10 
load projects stymied today by extremely long interconnection timelines.33 The LCEP Proposal 
also facilitates bringing new generation online to service new large loads as quickly as possible.   
The arrangements that would qualify for LCEP Service would be limited: First, LCEP 
Service arrangements must be sited “at the same” Point of Interconnection as an existing 
generation resource.34 Second, the “new load would be sized less than or equal to” a single existing 
generator at the applicable Point of Interconnection.35 Third, the new generation must be 
“commensurate with the new load” and “deliverable” only to the new load with which it is paired—
no net injections onto the grid beyond the existing generator’s rights would be allowed.36 The new 
generation would in essence become a “new category of generation resource” that could not be 
used to offset the capacity obligation of any load other than the paired load.37 The new generator 
would offer into the energy market up to the level of the paired load. 
Because LCEP Service arrangements would not increase the existing generator’s 
Interconnection Service at the Point of Interconnection, LCEP Service arrangements would 
leverage the existing power system and power system studies to improve the efficiency of 
processing interconnection requests for both Transmission Providers and Interconnection 
Customers. The new generation and new load components of LCEP Service would create system 
conditions that fall within the N-1 or G-1 thermal power flow scenarios (loss of a single generator) 
already studied for the existing generation resource. For that reason, the studies for LCEP resource 
 
33 Order Regarding Intent to Act, 195 FERC ¶ 61,045 at P 2 (agreeing that “‘[i]n light of the unprecedented current 
and expected growth of large loads’ such as data centers, there is an urgent need for thoughtful reforms to ensure 
that large loads are ‘able to connect to the transmission system in a timely, orderly, and non-discriminatory 
manner.’”) (citing Secretary’s Letter at 1). 
34 Constellation LCEP Presentation at 5. 
35 Id. 
36 Id. 
37 Id. 

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
11 
arrangements would largely confirm that base (or normal) and contingency thermal power flow 
conditions have been studied and planned for at the existing generator’s Point of Interconnection.38 
The restrictions on the generation and load components of LCEP Service mainly address the 
possibility of thermal overloads, which are a large cause of network upgrades, although all studies 
that the Transmission Provider deems appropriate to protect reliability should be conducted. 
Similar to Surplus Interconnection Service requests, these limited LCEP Service arrangements 
could be processed on an expedited basis by the Transmission Provider, outside the normal 
interconnection queues.39 
In addition, the process for LCEP Service would maintain system reliability. Studies would 
be performed to ensure that all required reliability conditions are evaluated. But we already know 
that the system is designed to meet the planned—and unchanged—injections and withdrawals at 
the existing generator’s point of interconnection from a thermal power flow perspective. Based on 
those studies, system protection requirements can be put in place to ensure there will be no net 
injections as is done in normal course.40 While the current study processes for some Transmission 
Providers (such as PJM) do not plan for load outages, if load outage studies are required, the 
operational conditions applicable to LCEP Service would address any reliability concerns. 
Specifically, one of the key operational terms applicable to LCEP Service is that mechanisms 
 
38 Id. (“The LCEP proposal would create no new thermal power flow study conditions that haven’t already been 
studied and planned for at the existing generator POI.”). See also, e.g., pro forma LGIP § 3.3.1 (related to Surplus 
Interconnection Service).  
39 Order No. 845, 163 FERC ¶ 61,043 at PP 486-488. 
40 See Reply Brief of Constellation Energy Generation, LLC at 16 (Apr. 24, 2026) (“Constellation Reply Brief”) (“PJM 
only requires [special protection systems] when ‘appropriate,’ that is, when studies identify ‘actual overloads and 
conditions that could cause cascading failures that PJM cannot mitigate through normal operations.’”) (quoting PJM 
Manual 14B at 116 and Reply Brief, Exhibit 1, ¶ 5 (Affidavit of Michael Kormos)). 

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
12 
similar to those used in surplus or hybrid interconnection would apply to the circumstance when 
load reduces or drops.  
LCEP Service could also be used by a generator/load combination as a transitional service 
that would expedite their interconnection while the generation is being studied as either an energy-
only resource or as standard capacity resource. Once any necessary upgrades have been 
constructed to make the generation deliverable as an energy and/or capacity resource, the new 
generation would be allowed to participate in the markets in accordance with that status. In fact, a 
transitional mechanism may be preferable for many, just as many Co-Located Loads may seek 
Interim Network Integration Transmission Service (“NITS”) while waiting for standard NITS.41 
As a practical matter, LCEP Service cannot be indefinite. Like Surplus Interconnection Service, 
an LCEP Service arrangement is inherently derived from the original existing generator’s 
Interconnection Service.42 Once the existing generator retires or permanently ceases commercial 
operation, so too would the associated LCEP Service arrangement.43 
To effectuate LCEP Service, the Commission can define LCEP Service in the pro forma 
LGIP as an Interconnection Service available for new generation and load pairings (1) sited at the 
same Point of Interconnection as an existing generation resource, (2) where the maximum output 
to the grid of existing and new generation is unchanged, (3) the size of the load does not exceed 
that of a single existing generator at the Point of Interconnection, and (4) the new generation is 
sized commensurate with the new load with which it is paired. The Commission can also model 
 
41 See generally PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 193 FERC ¶ 61,217 (2025) (“PJM Co-Location Order”). 
42 Order No. 845, 163 FERC ¶ 61,043 at P 474. 
43 Id. (“Because surplus interconnection service is inherently derived from an original interconnection customer’s 
interconnection service under its LGIA, retirement and permanent cessation of commercial operation of the original 
interconnection customer’s generating facility would eliminate any potential surplus interconnection service that 
might otherwise have been available.”). 

--- PAGE 13 ---
 
13 
the pro forma LGIP language specifying the LCEP Service after its Surplus Interconnection 
requirements.44 The Commission should specify that requests for LCEP Service can be made by 
the existing Generating Facility, or one of its affiliates, or by an unaffiliated Interconnection 
Customer for the new generation and load pairing with the explicit consent of the existing 
Generating Facility.45 The Commission should also require Transmission Providers to clearly 
identify the studies for evaluating LCEP Service requests.46 Clear and transparent rules on the 
studies performed by Transmission Providers are critical to prevent delay. All such study processes 
must be tailored to accommodate speed to service or the efficiencies of siting at Points of 
Interconnection already proven to be reliable will be lost. The point of this new service is not to 
avoid charges for transmission service, but to minimize delay in bringing new generation online 
to serve new large load. 
B. Accommodating LCEP Service Arrangements is “Squarely” Within the 
Commission’s Authority 
The Commission has the authority to accommodate LCEP Service arrangements. LCEP 
Service 
involves 
using 
existing 
interconnection 
facilities 
and 
network 
upgrades. 
“[I]nterconnection is part and parcel of transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce, and 
thus interconnection service is part and parcel of jurisdictional transmission service.”47 The fact 
that LCEP Service arrangements would pair new generation with load at the Point of 
 
44 See, e.g., id. P 467; pro forma LGIP § 3.3. 
45 See, e.g., pro forma LGIP § 3.3.1 (“Surplus Interconnection Service requests may be made by the existing 
Interconnection Customer or one of its affiliates or may be submitted once Interconnection Customer has executed 
the LGIA or requested that the LGIA be filed unexecuted. Surplus Interconnection Service requests also may be 
made by another Interconnection Customer.”). 
46 See, e.g., id. (“Studies for Surplus Interconnection Service shall consist of reactive power, short circuit/fault duty, 
stability analyses, and any other appropriate studies. Steady-state (thermal/voltage) analyses may be performed as 
necessary to ensure that all required reliability conditions are studied.”).  
47 Pac. Gas & Elec. Co., 115 FERC ¶ 61,193, at P 36 (2006). 

--- PAGE 14 ---
 
14 
Interconnection with the Transmission System does not cause the Commission to lose its 
jurisdiction over the interconnection. Because the existing generator’s Point of Interconnection is 
FERC-jurisdictional, so too must be the load’s.  
CONCLUSION 
WHEREFORE, Constellation respectfully requests that the Commission include an LCEP 
Service option in its next steps on the ANOPR. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    /s/ Paul F. Wight 
 
 
June 5, 2026 
Carrie Hill Allen 
Sr. Vice President & Deputy General Counsel 
Seth T. Lucia 
Assistant General Counsel 
Constellation Energy Generation, LLC 
250 Massachusetts Ave. NW, Suite 760 
Washington, D.C. 20001 
carrie.allen@constellation.com 
seth.lucia@constellation.com 
  
Christopher A. Wilson 
Managing Director, Federal Regulatory Affairs 
Constellation Energy Generation, LLC 
250 Massachusetts Ave. NW, Suite 760 
Washington, D.C. 20001 
202-347-7500 
FERCe-filings1@constellation.com 
 
Paul F. Wight 
Carolyn E. Clarkin 
DLA Piper LLP (US) 
500 Eighth Street NW 
Washington, D.C. 20004 
703-773-4058 
paul.wight@us.dlapiper.com 
carolyn.clarkin@us.dlapiper.com 
 
Sophia Browning 
DLA Piper LLP (US) 
4365 Executive Drive 
San Diego, CA 92121 
858-677-1455 
sophia.browning@us.dlapiper.com  
 
Counsel for Constellation Energy 
Generation, LLC 
 

--- PAGE 15 ---
 
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
I hereby certify that I have on this 5th day of June 2026, caused to be served a copy of the 
foregoing upon all parties on the service lists in these proceedings in accordance with the 
requirement of Rule 2010 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Procedure, 18 C.F.R. 
§ 385.2010 (2024). 
/s/ Carolyn E. Clarkin 
Carolyn E. Clarkin 
DLA Piper LLP (US) 
500 Eighth Street NW 
Washington, D.C. 20004 
202-799-4538 
carolyn.clarkin@us.dlapiper.com 

--- PAGE 16 ---
 
 
ATTACHMENT A 
 
Load-Contingent New Capacity at Existing Plants (LCEP) – A Speed to Power Pathway 
 
Constellation Energy Generation, LLC 
 

--- PAGE 17 ---
Load-Contingent New Capacity 
at Existing Plants (LCEP) – A 
Speed to Power Pathway

--- PAGE 18 ---
• ANOPR Background – The ANOPR seeks to encourage the connection of large loads “to the transmission system in a timely, orderly, 
and non-discriminatory manner.”  
• The ANOPR encourages novel approaches for achieving this speed to power, including:
• Studying load together with generating facilities, given “siting a large load near or at the same point of interconnection 
as a new generating facility could reduce the network upgrades needed to interconnect only the load or only the 
generating facility.” Third Principle. 
• Incentivizing co-location which can “ensure[] efficient buildout of the transmission system.”  Fifth Principle.
• The Commission has also looked favorably on novel load/generator connection arrangements recently (e.g., SPP CPP order).
• The ANOPR leaves to the Commission the task of developing specific implementation rules. 
• Long lead time network upgrades to support new generation is the new normal and will be difficult to overcome 
• Load-Contingent New Capacity at Existing Plants (LCEP) – LCEP is a unique generator/load connection arrangement for new load 
and a commensurate amount of new generation to be connected at a site that already has existing generation of equal or greater 
size.  
– Connecting new generation and new load at the same POI as an existing generator (i.e., a location that has already been 
studied) would simplify the new gen/load study under this LCEP proposal.
– The new LCEP (generation/load pair at an existing site) would create no new thermal power flow study conditions that haven’t 
already been studied and planned for at the existing generator POI.
Background and Summary
2
The LCEP proposal can provide an expedited means of connecting new generation and new load. The 
Commission should require RTOs to include the LCEP proposal as an option in ANOPR responses.

--- PAGE 19 ---
Gen/Load Pair at Existing Generation Falls Within Scope of Prior Studies
and is Likely to Avoid Delays Associated With Network Upgrades 
3
Scenario
Description
Existing 
Resource Output
Loss of 
Generator
New Resource 
Output
New Load
Flow on 
Line X
Flow on 
Line Y
Flow on 
Line Z
A
Max Existing Output
1,745
N/A
0
0
891
427
425
B
Loss of Single Existing Unit
864
Existing
0
0
436
213
212
C
Max Output of LCEP and Existing
1,745
N/A
800
800
891
427
425
D
Loss of New LCEP Generation
1,745
New
0
800
479
233
231
~
Existing 
Resource
New 
Resource + 
New Load
Lines To Bulk 
Electric 
System
Line X
Line Y
Line Z
• Siting new gen/load pairs at an existing resource makes use of already 
studied maximum/minimum net injections to the system.
• Consider the following scenarios*:
– A – Max output of existing generation resource
– B – Loss of single existing generation unit
– C – Max output of LCEP and existing
– D – Loss of new LCEP generation
• LCEP passes and gains speedy online dates if scenarios C & D fall 
between already-studied scenarios A & B:
– Is B <= C <= A?: Yes, max output to system unchanged AND
– Is B <= D <= A?: Yes, min output to the system unchanged.
~
POI
~
LCEP leverages studies that have already been conducted to provide a more rapid, yet still reliable, interconnection study process 
for the addition of gen/load pair to the system, while also reducing the likelihood of delays associated with network upgrades.
* To ensure that the total generation does not exceed the studied values, if the new load is reduced or drops, mechanisms similar to those used in surplus or hybrid interconnection 
would be in place.

--- PAGE 20 ---
Gen/Load Pair Not Located at Existing Plant More Likely to Fail Study
Criteria and Result in Delays Associated With Network Upgrades
4
No 
Existing 
Resource
New 
Resource + 
New Load
Lines To Bulk 
Electric 
System
Line X
Line Y
Line Z
~
POI
Scenario
Description
Existing 
Resource Output
Loss of 
Generator
New Resource 
Output
New Load
Flow on 
Line X
Flow on 
Line Y
Flow on 
Line Z
A
No Study of Existing Generation
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
487
1,500
1,013
B
No Loss of Generation to Study
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
C
Max Output of New Gen/Load Pair
N/A
N/A
800
800
487
1,500
1,013
D
Loss of New Generation
N/A
New
0
800
1,124
1,337
1,013
• Siting new gen/load pairs without an existing resource does not 
make use of already studied maximum/minimum net injections to the 
system.
• Consider the following scenarios:
– A – No study of existing generation resource
– B – No loss of generation to study since no existing resource
– C – Max output of gen/load pair 
– D – Loss of new generation
• Gen/load pair doesn’t qualify for LCEP study process because 
scenarios C & D need to equal A to have been already-studied:
– Is C = A?: Yes, max output to system unchanged AND
– Is D = A?: No, un-studied condition because line flows exceed 
levels previously studied.
Gen/Load Pair less likely to pass study criteria unless sited at an existing plant and more likely to be delayed due 
to network upgrades as a result.

--- PAGE 21 ---
Overview
New generation and new load would apply together to be sited at the same point of interconnection (POI) as an existing generation 
resource. In these configurations, the new load would be sized less than or equal to an existing unit at the POI and the new generator 
would be sized commensurate with the new load. Projects meeting the combined criteria would qualify to be studied using the LCEP 
process. 
LCEP Process 
• LCEP generation is, in essence, a new category of generation resource – one that is deliverable only to the new load with which it is 
paired.  The new generator would be studied outside of the standard interconnection queue since it is already “deliverable” by virtue of 
its electrical proximity to the new load, but would still be dispatched similarly to other capacity resources in planning cases, contingent 
on the paired load being online (no net injection).  
– A load outage is not typically planned for currently and therefore should not need to be a part of the LCEP process studies. However, 
even if such studies were to be required, the operational conditions applicable to LCEP would address the load outage (i.e., 
operational mechanisms similar to those used in surplus or hybrid interconnection, would apply to the circumstance when load 
reduces or drops).
– Said another way, there would be no increase in net injection to the grid across the existing generation and new generation/load pair
• Speed to power is facilitated by leveraging the existing power system and power system studies – specifically existing generation 
resource POIs.  The LCEP proposal would create no new thermal power flow study conditions that haven’t already been studied and 
planned for at the existing generator POI.  Therefore, an LCEP queue reduces unnecessary noise and delays in the RTO study process 
while reducing the risk of delays from network upgrades.  RTO would control what studies are performed, consistent with NERC 
requirements.  
LCEP Pathway Process and Details
5
