--- PAGE 1 ---
 
1
 
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
  
)  
Interconnection of Large Loads 
 
) 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
to the Interstate Transmission System  
)  
  
 
COMMENTS OF ADVANCED ENERGY UNITED 
 
Advanced Energy United appreciates the opportunity to provide input to the Federal 
Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC” or “Commission”) in response to the letter from the 
Secretary of the Department of Energy (“DOE”) pursuant to Section 403 of the DOE 
Organization Act (“DOE Act”) directing FERC to initiate rulemaking procedures regarding the 
interconnection of large loads (“Large Loads Letter”).1 The Large Loads Letter contains an 
Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”), including fourteen principles for 
addressing issues relating to the interconnection of large loads directly to transmission facilities, 
and requests that the Commission take final action no later than April 30, 2026.2 Advanced 
Energy United is supportive of efforts by DOE and the Commission to expediently resolve 
uncertainties and advance efficiencies with respect to the rules governing large load additions. 
Our comments below offer recommendations to successfully achieve the objective of the Large 
Loads Letter to ensure that “large loads, including AI data centers, served by public utilities must 
 
1Letter from Chris Wright, Sec’y of Energy, U.S. Dep’t of Energy, to the Fed. Energy Regul. Comm’n (Oct. 23, 
2025) (“Large Loads Letter” or “ANOPR”). 
2 Large Loads Letter, at 2. 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
2
be able to connect to the transmission system in a timely, orderly, and non-discriminatory 
manner.”3 
 
I. 
INTRODUCTION  
 
Load growth is a signal of economic strength, but the pace and scale at which it is 
currently projected to materialize is posing a series of well-documented challenges, ranging from 
potential resource adequacy shortfalls to concerns that the cost of serving new large loads may 
spill over to other customers. Navigating through the current era of load growth in a way that 
supports economic growth while also maintaining energy affordability and reliability is the top 
challenge facing the entirety of the electricity industry—from private companies to public 
utilities to non-profit grid operators to experts and advocates to regulators and elected officials. 
DOE’s initiative and leadership in proposing creative and bold solutions and FERC’s quick 
response to initiate a rulemaking proceeding and accept stakeholder comments indicate an 
understanding of the urgency and importance of the task at hand, and signal an encouraging 
commitment to meaningful reform. 
The solutions to the challenges that rapid load growth poses are at once simple and 
complex. At the core, accommodating load growth is a question of investing in infrastructure: 
generation and storage resources, transmission and distribution upgrades, advanced grid 
management, and customer-sited technologies for resilience and flexibility. Delivering these 
solutions involves integrated system planning and clear and fair market rules to ensure an 
efficient and reliable resource mix. The Commission has already taken important actions through 
rulemakings like Order Nos. 2222, 2023, and 1920 and 1920-A that will, when fully 
 
3 Large Loads Letter at 1. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
3
implemented, better equip grid operators, transmission providers, and market participants to 
prepare for load growth and any other future challenges. But there is a lag between issuance of 
reforms and full implementation, and additional delay before the resulting physical infrastructure 
reaches commercial operation and is able to generate, store, avoid, shift, and/or transmit 
electrons to serve new load. 
While the medium- to long-term solutions to meeting load growth are already underway, 
new large loads can often materialize much more quickly than the infrastructure to serve them. If 
we try to force too much new load onto an unprepared grid, the result will be reliability shortfalls 
and price spikes that adversely impact all customers. And if we build new infrastructure to meet 
forecasts that turn out to have been inflated, reliability concerns may be minimized, but the cost 
impacts to all customers will be exacerbated. At the same time, new large loads are presenting 
novel challenges due to their scale and operating characteristics. The question at the heart of this 
proceeding is how to enable speed to power for new large loads in a way that is transparent, 
durable, fair for all customers, and consistent with the requirements of the Federal Power Act 
(“FPA”) to avoid undue discrimination and ensure just and reasonable rates. 
The ANOPR rightly emphasizes the long-standing principle of open access transmission 
service, citing improvements to transmission planning and generator interconnection that have 
stemmed from and served to bolster this foundational principle.4 The load interconnection 
process today is characterized by long delays and lack of transparency5—not the hallmarks of a 
 
4 See ANOPR at 3, 6, 7, 9, 12, 13. 
5 See Google comments to PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., RE: Critical Issue Fast Path – Large Load Additions, 
available at https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/committees-groups/cifp-lla/postings/20250828-stakeholder-
comments-cifp-lla.pdf, at 5 (“Existing large load interconnection processes, especially in areas with a significant 
volume of requests, have become overwhelmed and insufficient, and interconnecting customers are facing 
interconnection times of several years, at best, and unknown times at worst, with little insight into the constraints 
driving those timelines or how interconnection requests are differentiated among customers.”) 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
4
system in which open and non-discriminatory access to the transmission system is assured. Many 
states and regions are already stepping in to rectify a clearly broken process, ranging from PJM’s 
Large Load Additions Critical Issue Fast Path (CIFP) process6 to SPP’s efforts to accommodate 
large loads through various High Impact Large Load pathways7 to a growing number of state-
jurisdictional large load tariffs.8 The interrelated task of improving load forecasting has also 
rightly received increased attention, as the (in)accuracy of our load forecasts will determine 
whether our responses to impending load growth are appropriately tailored to the scale and scope 
of the challenge.9  
The Commission can and must play a role in providing clarity to the large load 
interconnection process and to the various rules and processes that impact and are impacted by 
large load additions. Given its national purview and broad authority, the Commission is uniquely 
positioned to gather information from across these efforts and from all involved stakeholders to 
identify the areas where Commission involvement is necessary to ensure open access to the 
transmission system, where it will prove beneficial in accelerating and clarifying progress, and 
where it may conversely impede or complicate efficient implementation of solutions. As the 
 
6 Letter from David E. Mills, PJM Board of Managers Chair, PJM, Interconnection, L.L.C. to PJM Stakeholders 
(Aug. 8, 2025). https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/about-pjm/who-we-are/public-disclosures/2025/20250808-
pjm-board-letter-re-implementation-of-critical-issue-fast-path-process-for-large-load-additions.pdf 
7 Southwest Power Pool, Inc., Tariff Revisions to Add the High Impact Large Load Processes and High Impact 
Large Load Generation Assessment, Submitted in Docket No. ER26-247, (October 24, 2025) (“HILL/HILLGA 
Filing”).  
8  See Revisions to large load tariffs approved by state regulators in the Appalachian Power Company’s (“APCo”) 
West Virginia service territory, and in American Electric Power’s (“AEP”) Ohio service territory. Virginia Electric 
and Power Company (“Dominion”) and APCo Virginia have large load tariff provisions pending before the Virginia 
State Corporation Commission; final outcomes are expected by the end of 2025. Additionally, Commonwealth 
Edison (“ComEd”) has proposed large load tariff revisions. 
9 Advanced Energy United, Pre-Technical Conference Comments, Docket No. AD25-7-000, at 2 (May 16, 2025); 
Letter from Chairman Rosner, Federal Energy Regul. Comm’n, to Reg’l Transmission Operators and Indep. Sys. 
Operators (Sept. 18, 2025); Letter from Electricity Customer Alliance, to Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
(May 30, 2025). 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
5
Commission approaches the complex and exciting challenges laid out in the Large Loads Letter 
and accompanying ANOPR, Advanced Energy United urges an approach that is: 
• Affordable. Consistent with the requirement of the FPA to ensure just and reasonable 
rates, any rules regarding large load interconnections must promote affordability for all 
customers. 
• Reliable. Ensuring safe and reliable electricity is at the core of the Commission’s 
mission, and rules governing large load additions should ensure that reliability is not 
compromised by the influx of new large loads. The Commission should work closely 
with the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) to achieve this 
objective. 
• Fair. Consistent with the FPA, the Commission must protect against undue 
discrimination and ensure just and reasonable rates by avoiding adverse impacts on other 
market participants and other (non-large load) customers. This means avoiding any 
adverse impacts to reliability and resource adequacy, avoiding undue preference to large 
loads and/or the resources serving them, not interfering with clear and fair market signals 
and rules for all market participants, and ensuring that cost causers bear appropriate costs 
by protecting against direct or indirect cost shifts. 
• Efficient. Any actions taken by the Commission should support the goal of speed to 
power, and should avoid disrupting progress as reforms are debated and implemented. In 
some areas, Commission intervention may provide necessary standardization and 
transparency that promotes efficiency, while in other areas it may add risk of delay or 
complexity. The record in this proceeding will be instructive in identifying reforms to 
prioritize and those to avoid or approach with more caution. 
• Durable. While this proceeding is a response to the acute challenge of rapid data center 
load growth, the solutions it produces should avoid disrupting long-term market and 
business certainty, good long-term planning practices, and fair and open access to the 
transmission system, consistent with all applicable statutes and legal precedent. To the 
extent temporary measures are considered, they should be designed such that they 
support, rather than conflict with, long-term solutions. 
 
Advanced Energy United’s comments below are offered with these overarching goals in mind, 
and we look forward to continuing to work with the Commission, DOE, the RTOs/ISOs, states, 
and other stakeholders to enact solutions that enable speed to power without eroding critical 
guardrails that have and will continue to serve all customers well. 
 
II. 
COMMENTS 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
6
 
A. Jurisdiction 
 
United agrees with DOE that FERC has an important role to play in providing clarity and 
addressing the challenges of large load additions. As DOE explains in the ANOPR, section 
201(b) of the Federal Power Act (FPA) grants the Commission jurisdiction over the sale of 
wholesale electricity in interstate commerce and over the transmission of electricity in interstate 
commerce.10 This commonly accepted basis for the Commission’s jurisdiction clearly grants the 
Commission an important role in the interconnection of new large loads to the transmission 
system. At minimum, this makes the Commission responsible for clarifying treatment of 
different large load and co-location arrangements with respect to their impact on and use of 
wholesale services and the interstate transmission system; ensuring that load forecasts used in 
FERC-jurisdictional planning processes and impacting FERC-jurisdictional markets are accurate; 
ensuring open access to the transmission system; maintaining just and reasonable rates; and 
ensuring reliability as large loads come online. 
It is important that FERC make clear that regardless of the role FERC plays in large load 
interconnection arrangements, states retain jurisdiction over retail sales to large loads. As noted 
in United’s response to the PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 206 Investigation, states and the 
Commission share a service responsibility to co-located load and generation.11 Importantly, 
many states are already taking steps to address challenges and implement solutions related to 
large loads. For example, in February 2025, Indiana passed tariff revisions to set terms for new 
 
10 16 U.S.C. § 824(b)(1). 
11 Response of Advanced Energy United to PJM Interconnection, L.L.C.’s Answer to the Show Cause Order, EL25-
49-000, at 8 (April 23, 2025).  

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
7
large load connections requiring that new large loads pay for grid upgrades needed to connect.12 
Similarly, Texas and Nevada have also made tariff revisions to account for large load 
interconnection upgrades.13 Acting according to their historical jurisdiction over all load 
interconnections, states have made efforts to control the rapid growth of demand due to the 
influx of large load interconnection requests. While the scope of the ANOPR extends beyond 
these state-level efforts, there is overlap and consistency with some of the principles of the 
ANOPR, and these state efforts should be taken into account as the Commission contemplates a 
potential rulemaking.  
While the substance of United’s comments below apply to the topic of large load 
interconnection regardless of jurisdiction, some elements of the proposed changes could be 
undertaken by the Commission under a status quo exercise of its jurisdiction with respect to large 
load interconnection. United encourages the Commission, in any future proposal, to make clear 
which elements of the proposed reforms are not contingent upon the assertion that the 
Commission has broader jurisdiction over large loads interconnecting to the transmission system, 
and consider advancing these on an accelerated basis. These reforms may include, but not be 
limited to: 
• Requiring that transmission providers study large loads and interconnecting supply 
resources concurrently, with appropriate guardrails as discussed below (Principle Three); 
 
12 Ethan Howland, Indiana regulators approve ‘large load’ interconnection rules, Utility Dive (Feb. 20, 2025), 
https://www.utilitydive.com/news/indiana-iurc-large-load-interconnection-data-center-aep-amazon-google/740452/. 
13 Arcelia Martin, Texas Grid Operators and Regulators Iron Out New Rules for Data Centers, Inside Climate News 
(Oct. 10, 2025), https://insideclimatenews.org/news/10102025/texas-grid-operators-and-regulators-iron-out-new-
rules-for-data-centers/. Elaine Goodman, Large-Load Tariffs Touted as Alternative to ‘Side Deals’, RTO Insider 
(Sept. 4, 2025), https://www.rtoinsider.com/114017-nm-regulators-study-large-load-rate-design/. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
8
• Requiring stricter standards for load forecasting for the purposes of transmission planning 
and as an input into resource adequacy constructs (related to Principle Four);  
• Clarifying how different configurations of hybrid / co-located load plus generation 
resources would be studied, and how the cost of network transmission charges, ancillary 
services, and other wholesale costs would be assessed (Principles Five, Eleven, and 
Twelve); 
• Taking steps to encourage and expand flexibility for large loads and non-large loads alike 
(Principle Seven); and 
• Requiring that any existing facilities that seek to enter partial suspension to serve a new 
load at the same location must go through a system support resource or reliability must 
run (RMR) type study, and that such studies should include evaluation of potential 
resource adequacy concerns (Principle Ten). 
Where relevant, the comments below call out opportunities for the Commission to take action 
without asserting exclusive jurisdiction over large loads interconnecting directly to transmission 
facilities. 
 
B. Proposed Principles for Large Load Interconnection 
 
Advanced Energy United provides the following comments in response to the fourteen 
principles laid out by DOE, listed in the order they appear in the ANOPR. Following DOE’s 
proposed principles, United offers some additional considerations and principles for the 
Commission’s consideration. 
 
1. Principles One and Two: If FERC moves forward with asserting 
jurisdiction over large loads interconnecting to transmission 
facilities, it must clearly define upfront when the Commission-
jurisdictional process would apply. 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
9
 
The ANOPR proposes as its first principle that FERC jurisdiction be “limited to 
interconnections directly to transmission facilities, consistent with the Commission's seven-
factor test.”14 The ANOPR likewise acknowledges that states preserve jurisdiction over 
generation facilities, facilities used in local distribution or only for transmission of electricity in 
intrastate commerce, and transmission consumed by the transmitter. The ANOPR further 
proposes as principle two that the “the reforms should only apply to new loads greater than 20 
MW and, for hybrid facilities, where the load is greater than 20 MW.”15 The ANOPR requests 
comment on the specific 20 MW threshold, as well as whether a threshold is necessary at all. 
Should FERC assert its jurisdiction over large load interconnection, it must clearly limit 
its jurisdiction to large loads connecting to transmission facilities as suggested in the ANOPR. 
However, reliance on the “seven factor test” alone is insufficient to avoid potential uncertainty at 
the boundary of state and federal jurisdiction, which could cause unnecessary delay and added 
cost to the large load interconnection process, contrary to DOE’s stated goal of achieving speed 
to power. To avoid such an outcome, there must be clear definitions for what constitutes 
“transmission facilities” and what constitutes “large load” for purposes of FERC-jurisdictional 
large load interconnection.  
With respect to “transmission facilities,” as acknowledged above, should FERC choose to 
assert its jurisdiction over large load interconnection, such jurisdiction must be strictly limited to 
those loads interconnecting directly to interstate transmission. To avoid overriding state authority 
and to avoid costly and time-consuming confusion, the Commission should provide upfront 
clarity regarding whether the FERC-jurisdictional process applies to a particular interconnection 
 
14 ANOPR at P 18. 
15 ANOPR at P 19. 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
10
request to ensure that all large load interconnection customers know which process applies. 
Failure to provide this upfront clarity will add an otherwise unnecessary step of identifying 
which process applies to a particular interconnection request, which may introduce delay and 
confusion and even unnecessary litigation during the interconnection process. The Commission 
has previously recognized the potential for lack of certainty regarding jurisdictional boundaries 
and the adverse impact it can have on the generator interconnection process; this effect would be 
equally the case for large load interconnections. For example, in 2022, the Commission accepted 
a filing from ISO-New England (ISO-NE) to resolve inefficiencies with Distributed Energy 
Resources (DERs) connecting to the grid due to conflicting understandings of whether the ISO-
NE or state interconnection process applied.16 This confusion arose because transmission 
operators did not have a clear map of which feeders were FERC-jurisdictional versus state-
jurisdictional.17 Some interconnection customers discovered very late in the process that they had 
been following the wrong process, through no fault of their own, adding significant delays and 
unnecessary costs and regulatory processes. When applied to multi-billion dollar investment in 
infrastructure to serve a large load like a data center, such confusion and delay would be 
catastrophic.  
United suggests that one potential approach to clarifying when a FERC-jurisdictional 
large load jurisdiction process should apply is to establish a rebuttable presumption that any large 
load interconnection above a certain voltage threshold is defined as interconnecting to a 
“transmission facility” subject to FERC jurisdiction for purposes of large load interconnections. 
A voltage threshold would clearly define when the FERC process applies, avoiding confusion 
 
16 ER22-2226-000, Letter for Interconnection Jurisdiction Tariff Revisions, ISO-NE (June 29, 2022). 
17 180 FERC ¶ 61, 129, at P 19 (Aug 26, 2022). 

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
11
and potential discrimination. There are already RTO proposals to create such a threshold 
definition to clearly delineate when more stringent study processes should apply: the pending 
SPP High Impact Large Load Integration proposal sets forth such a threshold to clarify where 
additional load interconnection requirements apply.18 
Setting a voltage threshold may also obviate the need for a MW threshold below which 
the FERC process does not apply. However, should the Commission adopt such a threshold, 
United notes that the 20 MW threshold put forward in the ANOPR is significantly lower than the 
definition of “large load” already in use in states that have taken action to standardize large load 
interconnections. For example, Texas statute defines large load as any load above 75 MW,19 and 
the recent Indiana & Michigan power settlement defined large load customer as a customer with 
contract capacity greater than or equal to 70 MW at an individual plant.20 The Commission 
should also clarify that existing loads that expand incrementally, e.g., due to electrification of 
certain industrial processes, should not trigger an entire FERC-jurisdictional re-study if the 
incremental load increase causes the facility’s load to exceed the MW threshold used to define 
large loads. At the same time, the Commission must avoid a structure that would enable new 
large loads to evade FERC jurisdiction by connecting initially just below the threshold, and 
adding incremental load after interconnecting. Reliance on a voltage threshold alone would avoid 
such circumstances while still functionally limiting FERC’s jurisdiction to large loads. 
 
 
18 ER26-247-000, Submission of Tariff Revisions to Add the High Impact Large Load Process and High Impact 
Large Load Generation Assessment, Southwest Power Pool, at 12.  
19 S.B. No. 6, 89th Leg., R.S. (Tex. 2025). 
20 Settlement in the Indiana Michigan Power (I&M) proceeding approved by the Indiana Utility Regulatory 
Commission (IURC) in February 2025, available at https://iurc.portal.in.gov/_entity/sharepointdocumentlocation 
/4aae5d78-18a9-ef11-8a6a-001dd80bd98a/bb9c6bba-fd52-45ad-8e64-a444aef13c39?file=46097_IndMich_Sub 
mission%20of%20Unopposed%20Settlement%20Agreement%20and%20Unopposed%20Motion%20for%20Accept
ance%20of%20Out%20of%20Time%20Filing_112224.pdf. 

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
12
2. Principle Three: Studying load or hybrid facilities jointly with 
generating facilities is a logical approach, but clear guardrails are 
necessary to avoid undue discrimination and ensure just and 
reasonable rates. 
 
The ANOPR proposes that “to the extent practicable, load and hybrid facilities should be 
studied together with generating facilities,” and explains that “siting a large load near or at the 
same point of interconnection as a new generating facility could reduce the network upgrades 
needed to interconnect only the load or only the generating facility.”21 United agrees with this 
rationale, but cautions that this principle must be narrowly tailored to avoid adverse impacts on 
both existing load and other interconnection customers. United also notes that the Commission 
can enact a version of this principle without shifting how FERC’s jurisdiction is interpreted with 
respect to large load interconnection; indeed, SPP has already made a proposal for expedited 
study of new generation to serve large loads.22 
The concept of studying large loads together with supply resources has both near-term, 
practical appeal and durable, logical appeal. On a practical level, some regions are already facing 
supply shortages such that the only viable pathway to accommodate load growth without 
adversely impacting existing customers may be for new large loads to participate in some form 
of “Bring Your Own Generation” option. In particular, PJM is undergoing a fast-track 
stakeholder process to address Large Load Additions due to projected peak load growth of 32 
GW from 2024-2030.23  Bringing online new generation requires a pathway to interconnect the 
new generation, which a new load/generation interconnection study process would provide. 
 
21 ANOPR at P 20. 
22 ER26-247-000, Submission of Tariff Revisions to Add the High Impact Large Load Process and High Impact 
Large Load Generation Assessment, Southwest Power Pool. 
23 Letter from David E. Mills, PJM Board of Managers Chair, PJM, Interconnection, L.L.C. to PJM Stakeholders 
(Aug. 8, 2025). https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/about-pjm/who-we-are/public-disclosures/2025/20250808-
pjm-board-letter-re-implementation-of-critical-issue-fast-path-process-for-large-load-additions.pdf  

--- PAGE 13 ---
 
13
Beyond this period of acute need for new supply, the idea of studying new large load together 
with an associated new generating or storage facility has clear merit for the reasons summarized 
in the ANOPR. To the extent that a new large load and new generation or storage resource are 
geographically and electrically proximate, studying them together would reduce network 
upgrades, lower costs, and reduce the need for critical supply chain components. Establishing a 
combined study pathway would incentivize this kind of siting efficiency. Furthermore, the 
Commission should clarify that large loads that enter into arrangements with any new and 
deliverable capacity resource(s) that are appropriately sited should also be studied together. In 
other words, a hybrid facility should not be limited to a large load and a generator, it should also 
include a large load and any portfolio of capacity resources—whether generation, battery 
storage, demand response, distributed energy resource aggregations, or other accredited resource 
types.  
However, a loosely defined load/supply resource interconnection pathway that provides 
an expedited pathway for generation interconnection without appropriate safeguards would result 
in undue discrimination and unjust and unreasonable rates. Any study pathway that would give 
generation or storage facilities a faster, likely lower-cost interconnection pathway relative to the 
standard large generator interconnection process (“LGIP”) queue confers advantage to 
generating facilities that proceed through this path. To avoid undue discrimination, this pathway 
must be designed such that it is specific to the circumstance of a new supply resource being 
brought to the system specifically to serve the new large load that justifies its expedited 
interconnection. This means (1) this expedited pathway should not confer the same 
interconnection service as is available to interconnection customers serving native load, and (2) 
this pathway should be available only to generation or storage resources that are not similarly 

--- PAGE 14 ---
 
14
situated to other interconnection customers in that they meet eligibility parameters that 
meaningfully, transparently, and objectively differentiate projects that proceed via expedited 
pathways from projects in the general queue. Requiring merely a contractual link between the 
load and generation or a loose geographic link would be unduly discriminatory and would fail to 
protect other interconnection customers. 
SPP’s High Impact Large Load Generation Addition (“HILLGA”) proposal currently 
pending in Docket No. ER 26-247-00024 is a good starting point for the Commission to adapt in 
that it: 
• Does not provide full interconnection service akin to Network Resource Interconnection 
Service (“NRIS”) or Energy Resource Interconnection Service (“ERIS”), but rather a 
more limited, provisional interconnection allowing the generation to serve the new large 
load (which SPP terms “Load Limited Resource Interconnection Service” or “LLRIS”);25 
• Limits LLRIS to 5 years and requires the HILLGA to be on a path toward receiving 
transmission service, either firm Long-Term Point-to-Point Transmission Service 
obtained via the Aggregate Transmission Service Study or NRIS/ERIS obtained via the 
standard interconnection process;26 and 
• Requires meaningful electrical proximity between the load/hybrid facility and the 
generator, defined as no more than two substations away (one if connecting at 765 kV), 
such that the pairing would minimize network upgrades and study complexity and avoid 
 
24 Southwest Power Pool, Submission of Tariff Revisions to Add the High Impact Large Load 
Processes and High Impact Large Load Generation Assessment, Docket No.ER 26-247-000. 
25 Id., at 29. 
26 Id., at 29, 37. 

--- PAGE 15 ---
 
15
causing congestion.27 United recognizes that what constitutes “electrical proximity” may 
vary by region; this term should be generally defined to allow consideration of capacity 
deliverable to the associated load such that it relieves, avoids, or minimizes congestion 
impacts. 
SPP explicitly designed the HILLGA process with these protections in place to avoid adversely 
impacting the standard generator interconnection queue.28 SPP’s filing states that “a customer 
cannot use the HILLGA process to bypass” the normal interconnection procedures” and that it 
“recognizes the importance of SPP’s standard generator interconnection process and balances use 
of that process with a need to interconnect HILLS in an expedited manner on a limited basis 
during a short time period.”29 This balance should guide the Commission’s development of 
procedures to allow concurrent study of large loads and supply resources. 
While recent improvements to the interconnection process as a result of Order No. 2023 
and other reforms will increase the efficiency of the standard generator interconnection process, 
it can reasonably be expected that a serial process operating in parallel to study individual supply 
resources to serve new large loads will be faster and likely cheaper.30 In the absence of 
protections to ensure that such a path is limited and targeted, non-large load customers will be 
harmed because interconnection customers proceeding through standard generator 
interconnection process to serve all other load customers (primarily existing load) will likely face 
a costlier, lengthier path to connect to the grid. This would result in undue discrimination 
 
27 Id. at 26.   
28 Id. at 35-38. 
29 Id., at 36. 
30 For example, SPP anticipates that the HILLGA process will be completed in 150 days, compared to 12 months 
under its current Definitive Interconnection System Impact Study (DISIS) process. Id., at 36-37. 

--- PAGE 16 ---
 
16
amongst similarly situated interconnection customers and would create incentives for 
interconnection customers to seek opportunities to serve new large loads rather than serving 
native load customers. New large loads would thus gain priority access to the best available 
supply resources, regardless of their geographic proximity and other factors. While an expansive 
shortcut may be a tempting solution to address near-term load growth needs, it must not be 
allowed to undermine the long-term benefits of maintaining a fair and predictable 
interconnection process to serve all load. With appropriate guardrails, we can have both: a 
streamlined load/supply interconnection process that applies in limited, specific circumstances 
that serves to incentivize efficient siting of new large loads and generation, and a fair and 
efficient generator interconnection process to serve the majority of interconnection customers 
consistent with the mandate to avoid undue discrimination and ensure just and reasonable rates. 
 
3. Principle Four: Load and hybrid facilities should be subject to 
standardized, transparent, and stringent requirements to discipline 
interconnection requests and enhance load forecasting. 
 
Drawing from the example of the generator interconnection process, the ANOPR 
proposes that “load and hybrid facilities should be subject to standardized study deposits, 
readiness requirements, and withdrawal penalties.”31 United directionally supports the concept of 
standardizing and increasing the stringency of the load interconnection process, regardless of 
whether this process is FERC or state jurisdictional. Should the large load interconnection 
process remain state-jurisdictional, United notes that the Commission can still apply this 
principle to the load forecasting process at the RTOs to discipline the degree of load growth that 
markets and planning processes should be preparing for; in light of the level of anticipated load 
 
31 ANOPR at P 21. 

--- PAGE 17 ---
 
17
growth and the degree of uncertainty regarding that growth, doing so is critical to preserve just 
and reasonable rates. 
The ANOPR correctly notes that heightened financial commitments in the form of 
deposits and penalties would “deter speculative projects and provide transmission providers with 
more useful information to more accurately forecast demand on their systems.”32 Increasing the 
requirements on interconnecting large load customers is critical to ensure that utilities and system 
operators are not planning and preparing for load that will not ultimately show up, and that load 
is committing to pay the cost of preparing the system. Without this discipline, other new large 
loads will suffer the consequences of an interconnection process bogged down by speculative 
projects, and all ratepayers risk being left paying the cost of preparing the system for new load 
that never materializes. 
 
The Commission approved, and United supported, a similar approach for generator 
interconnection, and the parallel that DOE draws to that process is entirely appropriate. As with 
the generator interconnection process, it is critical to ensure compatibility with commercial 
realities and to adopt a mix of financial and non-financial readiness requirements to 
accommodate a range of business models and avoid a “pay to play” model whereby well-
capitalized large loads may be able to buy their way into multiple queue positions. The Clean 
Energy Buyers Association offered several non-financial readiness indicators in AD24-11-000 
that the Commission should consider here, including: “(i) Site control documentation, such as 
land acquisition or lease agreements; (ii) Permitting progress, with permits approved or in 
progress; (iii) Community engagement efforts, demonstrating local support or alignment with 
 
32 Id. 

--- PAGE 18 ---
 
18
regional development goals.”33 Including one or more of these readiness requirements as part of 
the large load interconnection process, in addition to financial deposits and withdrawal penalties, 
would ensure that only non-speculative, sufficiently ready projects will apply. As with the 
generator interconnection process, this is critical to avoid delays and cost increases that harm all 
interconnection customers. Increased transparency regarding interconnection requests, queue 
volumes and timing, and network upgrades—in keeping with protection of commercially 
sensitive information—is also important to all market participants. 
Many states are already taking steps in this direction, offering a framework for the 
Commission and/or other states to adapt. For example, a settlement agreement in Indiana 
requires large loads seeking to interconnect to the utility’s system to agree to increased up-front 
collateral requirements, minimum demand provisions (e.g., take or pay for new capacity 
requested) over the term of a contract, exit fees, and several other parameters.34 Some proposals 
include opportunities for large load customers that bring their own resources to offset security or 
collateral requirements, in recognition of the significant commitment this arrangement 
demonstrates.35  
Whether or not FERC asserts its jurisdiction over interconnection directly to the 
transmission system to create a new large load interconnection process, the Commission should 
require more certainty regarding large load additions for the purposes of load forecasting 
processes. Specifically, should the Commission create a large load interconnection process, 
 
33 Clean Energy Buyers Association (CEBA) comments in AD24-11, at 15. 
34 See Order of the Commission, Cause No. 46097, Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission (issued February 19, 
2025). 
35 For example, Tri-State’s High Impact Load (HIL) proposal would have allowed HIL customers to reduce the 
security posting by participating in a Bring Your Own Resource Tariff. While FERC rejected Tri-State’s filing on 
jurisdictional grounds, it did not evaluate the merits of this aspect of Tri-State’s filing. 193 FERC ¶ 61,070, 
Commission Order (Oct. 27, 2025), at P 53. 

--- PAGE 19 ---
 
19
complete with heightened financial and non-financial readiness requirements and withdrawal 
penalties, the information gathered from this process should directly feed into load forecasts as 
an input to resource adequacy constructs and for purposes of system planning. Even if states 
retain jurisdiction over interconnection, the Commission could require that RTOs include new 
large loads in their load forecasts only if such loads are backed by more stringent 
commitments.36 As one example, AEP Ohio cut its data center forecast in half after imposing 
more stringent requirements on large loads seeking to interconnect to its system.37 If load 
forecasts are inaccurate, the outcome will be infrastructure investments not matched by actual 
load growth—and sufficient new customers to pay for the new infrastructure—resulting in cost 
shifts to existing load and unjust and unreasonable rates for all customers. 
 
4. Principle Five: Hybrid facilities should be studied based on their 
anticipated operation and expected impact on the grid 
 
The ANOPR proposes that hybrid facilities be studied based on the amount of injection 
and/or withdrawal rights requested during the interconnection process. United agrees with the 
principle that hybrid facilities should be studied in such a way that the benefits of co-location are 
reflected in the study. United, however, urges the Commission to clearly define “hybrid 
facilities,” which could include a range of different configurations, and define study practices 
that match the anticipated operation and grid impact of such facilities to create an efficient and 
fair interconnection process. 
 
36See Advanced Energy United, Response, Docket No. EL25-49-000 (April 23, 2025), at 21-22; Americans for a 
Clean Energy Grid, Response, Docket No. EL25-49-000 (April 23, 2025), attached proposal, “A disciplined 
approach to load forecasting”; Letter from Electricity Customer Alliance, to Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
(May 30, 2025), appended to Post-Technical Conference Comments in Docket No. AD25-7-000 and available at 
https://www.electricitycustomers.com/s/Joint-Customer-Letter-to-FERC-re-Load-Forecasting-53025.pdf, at 2. 
37 Meris Lutz, The week in 5 numbers: Electricity prices extend rise, regulators rein in data centers, Utility Dive 
(Nov. 14, 2025), https://www.utilitydive.com/news/the-week-in-5-numbers-electricity-prices-extend-rise-regulators-
rein-in-d/805533/. 

--- PAGE 20 ---
 
20
As written in the DOE letter, “hybrid facilities” could refer to a range of different co-
location options, all which may have different impacts on the grid. All loads—hybrid or 
otherwise—should be studied according to, and pay for, their actual impact on the grid, including 
consideration of the potential for the associated generation to go offline or otherwise become 
unavailable. If load does not pay for grid impact, that cost unreasonably falls to consumers. 
Likewise, the benefits of co-location should be accounted for. To help define hybrid facilities, the 
Commission should refer to the record created in Docket No. EL25-49 et al. (PJM Show Cause). 
This record puts forth a robust discussion of various configurations of hybrid facilitates and their 
impact on the bulk electric system.  
The Commission should also look to the example of Order No. 2023, which offers 
flexibility to consider the unique circumstances of a particular interconnection customer that 
would be appropriate in addressing and defining hybrid facilities. The Order requires, at the 
request of interconnection customers, a transmission provider to: “use operating assumptions for 
electric storage resources (standalone, co-located, or hybrid) that reflect proposed charging 
behavior—i.e., whether it will or will not charge during peak load conditions—unless good 
utility practice, including applicable reliability standards, otherwise requires use of different 
operating assumptions.”38 This requirement allows each facility to operate on a case-by-case 
basis rather than imposing a one-size-fits-all model that may not accurately account for the range 
of hybrid loads—and potential new configurations and capabilities that may emerge as 
technologies and operating practices evolve. This is the same flexibility that is needed to address 
large load interconnections across the board, but specifically hybrid loads. Not every hybrid load 
will bring the same capabilities and level of hybridization, and this has to be accounted for in 
 
38 184 FERC ¶ 61,054,”Order 2023,” at P 1509. 

--- PAGE 21 ---
 
21
study parameters and interconnection processes to avoid, on the one hand, overloading the grid, 
and, on the other hand, assigning unnecessary network upgrades that discourage co-location and 
further slow down efforts to accommodate new large loads. 
5. Principle Six: Any hybrid interconnection should be required to 
install the system protection facilities, but only if deemed necessary  
 
The ANOPR proposes that hybrid loads looking to interconnect shall be required to 
install system protection facilities necessary to prevent unauthorized injections or withdraws that 
exceed the respective rights. United supports the principle that any hybrid interconnection shall 
be required to install the system protection facilities necessary to prevent unauthorized injections 
or withdrawals that exceed the respective rights. This concept flows from the prior principle 
allowing hybrid facilitates while ensuring that they are paying only for necessary system 
upgrades given their planned operation. Given the broad scope of the ANOPR and the diversity 
of potential hybrid configurations, United urges the Commission to maintain flexibility when 
applying this principle to rulemaking. Order 2023 can serve as a model for this principle as well 
as the former. That Order did not require system protection facilities for all electric storage 
resources, but allowed transmission providers to require that interconnection customers install 
such facilities to prevent unauthorized injections or withdrawals.39 A similar approach and 
method could apply to large load hybrid facilities. 
 
6. Principle Seven: The Commission should encourage the benefits of 
load flexibility through expedited interconnection and other means. 
 
The ANOPR proposes that “the interconnection study of large loads that agree to be 
curtailable and hybrid facilities that agree to be curtailable and dispatchable should be 
 
39 Id. at P  1511. 

--- PAGE 22 ---
 
22
expedited.”40 United agrees with the underlying logic that curtailment and/or dispatch of load 
and hybrid facilities supports “the timely and orderly addition of large loads to the transmission 
system in a safe, reliable, and non-discriminatory manner.”41  However, this principle applies 
more broadly, and should be expanded to realize the full benefits of load flexibility to 
accommodate rapid growth of new large loads. United supports the ANOPR proposal that load 
flexibility should confer the benefit of expedited interconnection, and offers the following 
clarifications and recommendations. 
First, this treatment should apply to large loads that agree to be curtailable and 
dispatchable or that enter into arrangements with deliverable capacity from flexible loads. Even 
a small degree of flexibility among new large loads would enable the current system to 
accommodate significantly more load growth with minimal infrastructure upgrades. 42 New large 
loads willing to operate without firm transmission access—either permanently on a temporary 
basis as network upgrades are planned and constructed—should have clearly defined, optional, 
and expedited pathways to do so. At the same time, the role of flexibility as a tool to 
accommodate new large loads extends across the entire system: roughly 1–2% of hours each year 
(around 100–200 hours) usually account for 15–20% of total peak demand. Thus, deploying 
solutions that solve this “200-hour problem” by reducing peak demand during those critical 100-
200 hours can unlock significant grid capacity to accommodate load growth. Such solutions need 
not originate at the site of a new large load but could be incremental flexibility that is contracted 
by that large load and that is located such that it counteracts the impacts of the new large load. 
 
40 ANOPR at P 24. 
41 Id. 
42 Tyler Noriss, et al, Rethinking load Growth: Assessing the Potential for Integration of Large Flexible Loads in US 
Power Systems, Nicholas Institute for Energy, Environment and Sustainability, at 8 (Feb. 2025). 

--- PAGE 23 ---
 
23
That may require all or some of the flexibility to be at or near the site of the new large load, but 
some or all of it may be sufficiently proximate if it is within the same delivery zone or even 
wholesale market region. Because demand-side resources are not subject to a generation 
interconnection process, they can be contractually tied to the new large load while avoiding the 
undue discrimination concerns discussed with respect to Principle Three. 
Second, the Commission should make clear that this expedited interconnection pathway 
is strictly voluntary. Large loads and hybrid facilities should not face any requirement to be 
curtailable or dispatchable, or enter into arrangements with capacity from flexible loads, in order 
to interconnect, only to do so on an expedited basis. This appears to be the intent of the ANOPR, 
and should be made very clear in any final Commission action.  
Third, in addition to receiving expedited interconnection, loads that are flexible (directly 
or via contract) should have pathways to benefit from the cost savings of their lower impact on 
the system with respect to both transmission and capacity, including either temporary or 
permanent access to a non-firm transmission option.  
Independent of whether they receive expedited interconnection, the Commission should 
ensure that new large loads that choose to be curtailable should not receive preferential treatment 
compared to other loads participating as demand response in the capacity market. Specifically, 
all loads in the same capacity demand response (“DR”) program/class should be dispatched 
based on the same rules (i.e., timing, duration, and frequency of dispatch). Any curtailable or 
dispatchable loads not participating as part of a defined DR program, but simply offering 
curtailment to achieve faster interconnection and/or lower costs, should be deployed prior to Pre-
Emergency or Emergency load management resources to ensure that DR is not left picking up 
the slack if reserve margins are diminished due to a significant influx of new large loads that are 

--- PAGE 24 ---
 
24
not matched with adequate capacity resources. Failure to follow this dispatch order will increase 
the cost of DR, which will in turn discourage new market entry and potentially lead to existing 
DR exiting the market due to event “fatigue.” This would have the counterproductive impact of 
delaying the interconnection of new large loads by lowering the amount of capacity available on 
the system to accommodate load growth. 
To better accommodate current and future load growth, ISOs/RTOs should also consider 
offering new demand response options that are better suited to large load characteristics. Even if 
developed to better accommodate participation by new large loads, any such offerings should be 
open to all loads. For example, new DR programs could be developed for all customers that limit 
the annual number of hours dispatched, number of consecutive dispatch hours, number 
of dispatches, or other factors that may promote participation. It is understood that all such 
limitations will have the effect of lowering the effective load carrying capacity (“ELCC”) for 
such programs, but they may increase the available DR capacity overall. 
7. Principle Eight: Load and hybrid facilities should be responsible for 
100% of network upgrades they are assigned through 
interconnection studies, and should be credited these costs only to 
the extent the network upgrades benefit the system overall 
 
The ANOPR proposes that load and hybrid facilities should be responsible for all 
network utilities they are assigned through interconnection studies, and seeks comment on 
“whether such costs should be offset through a crediting mechanism.”43 United encourages 
aligning cost responsibility for load interconnection with cost responsibility for generator 
interconnection. In that vein, it is logical that both load and hybrid facilities should be 
responsible for 100% of the network upgrades they are attributed to serve the load. Should the 
 
43 ANOPR at P 25. 

--- PAGE 25 ---
 
25
Commission adopt a crediting mechanism to offset costs, this should only be applied to the 
extent that the network upgrades are shown to bring general benefit to load. One of the 
Commission’s primary focuses in implementing large load interconnection should be fairness 
and consistency across the interconnection process. Large loads should not be saddled with the 
full cost of network upgrades that benefit load generally, much as ratepayers should not be 
saddled with costs associated with grid upgrades to accommodate such large loads. Fair and 
equitable cost distribution and consistent processes help to maintain a reliable network and 
efficient queue, supporting just and reasonable rates for all customers. 
8. Principle Nine: Large load interconnection customers should be 
granted the option to build 
 
The ANOPR proposes that, to the extent the interconnection customer is not the 
transmission owner, the customer should have the same or equivalent options to build as 
provided in the generator interconnection process.44 United supports this as a critical policy to 
support competition and give load customers opportunities to speed and lower the cost of 
building network upgrades.   
 
Allowing non-transmission owning interconnection customers the same build options as 
transmission operators is consistent with Order No. 845. In that Order, the Commission found 
that, in circumstances where an interconnection customer cannot exercise the option to build, it 
may pay more and/or wait longer for the construction of the transmission provider’s 
interconnection facilities and standalone network upgrades.45 Preventing interconnection 
 
44 ANOPR at P 26. 
45 163 FERC ¶ 61,043, at P 85. 

--- PAGE 26 ---
 
26
customers from having the same access as transmission operators stands to further delay 
interconnection and clog the queue.  
 
United also asks the Commission to consider allowing this option for all stand-alone 
network utilities, including those shared among multiple load customers and/or generation, 
provided all parties agree. Extending this option would make any order coming from this 
rulemaking consistent with Order No. 2023-A. In Order No. 2023-A, FERC clarified that a 
network upgrade that is required for multiple interconnection customers in a cluster may be 
considered a “stand-alone network upgrade” if all such interconnection customers mutually agree 
to exercise the option to build. This provides a greater opportunity for an interconnection 
customer to exercise this option.46 
9. Principle Ten: Existing resources should be required to undergo 
rigorous studies prior to entering partial suspension to serve a new 
load, including evaluation of the impact on resource adequacy.  
 
The ANOPR proposes that any existing facilities that seek to enter partial suspension to 
serve a new load at the same location must go through a system support resource (“SSR”) or 
reliability must run (“RMR”) type study. The ANOPR seeks comment on “whether and how 
resource adequacy should be considered in the SSR/RMR type study.”47 United agrees that such 
facilities should go through an SSR/RMR type study, and that such studies should include 
evaluation of potential resource adequacy concerns. United also emphasizes that the Commission 
can take this action regardless of whether it asserts jurisdiction over the interconnection of new 
large loads directly to the transmission system. 
 
46 186 FERC ¶ 61,199, at P 141. 
47 ANOPR at P 27. 

--- PAGE 27 ---
 
27
The rapid emergence of large loads has created numerous concerns over resource 
adequacy and reliability needs, which any regulation or action by the Commission should 
address. To the extent an existing generating facility seeks to enter partial or full suspension to 
serve an individual customer, it is critical to ensure that network load does not suffer any adverse 
consequences, including degradation of reliability or increased costs. The Commission should 
require a robust process, including a screen for reliability and stability impacts as well as 
resource adequacy impact, to ensure a resource needed for resource adequacy does not pull its 
supply from the region to serve an individual customer. The resource adequacy evaluation should 
also consider locational impacts; for example, allowing an existing resource to be partially 
dedicated to serve a new load within a congested area may not undermine resource adequacy, 
even if the broader RTO region is in a reserve deficiency. There are also opportunities to mitigate 
the impact of existing generation serving a new large load: Texas recently adopted a requirement 
that existing generation undergo a study akin to that contemplated by the ANOPR prior to 
serving a new large load through a “net metering” arrangement, while also requiring the capacity 
from the “exiting” resource to be available to ERCOT during emergencies.48 
Multiple regions are citing potential resource adequacy shortfalls resulting from rapid 
entry of new large loads; it is critical that in solving this problem, we do not create a new one by 
pulling needed resources away from existing customers to serve new large loads. Transparent, 
well-defined, robust study processes are critical to ensure continued reliability and affordability 
 
48  S.B. No. 6, 89th Leg., R.S. (Tex. 2025) (requiring that “a generation resource that makes dispatchable capacity 
available to the ERCOT power region before the implementation of a net metering arrangement [to serve a new 
large load] under this section to make at least that amount of dispatchable capacity available to the ERCOT power 
region after the implementation of the arrangement at the direction of the independent organization in advance of an 
anticipated emergency condition.”). 

--- PAGE 28 ---
 
28
while also allowing flexibility for existing resources to serve new large loads when doing so 
would not adversely impact reliability or other customers. 
10. Principles Eleven and Twelve: Utilities serving large loads, including 
those at hybrid facilities, should be responsible for transmission 
service and ancillary services based on the load or hybrid facility’s 
actual use of those services. 
 
The ANOPR asserts that “utilities serving large loads, including those at hybrid facilities, 
should be responsible for transmission service based on their withdrawal rights, as that value 
amount reflects the quantity of capacity and energy that is being transmitted across the 
transmission system to the load, and that “utilities serving large loads, including those at hybrid 
facilities, should be responsible for ancillary services based on peak demand, without 
consideration of any co-located generation.” United agrees with what appears to be the 
underlying goal of these principles, which is that large loads should pay for all the services they 
utilize, and avoid paying for those they do not. However, United cautions that a one-size-fits-all 
approach is likely insufficient given the variety of possible hybrid or co-located load 
configurations and the range of different grid services they rely upon. 
As noted above in response to Principle Five, “hybrid facilities” may refer to a range of 
different co-location options that could have different impacts on the grid. All loads, whether 
hybrid or not, should be studied according to—and pay for—their actual impact on the grid. As 
Google stated in Post-Technical Conference Comments in AD24-11-000, “to the extent any co-
location arrangement relies to any degree on the grid, the co-locating customer must ensure any 
grid services are appropriately compensated for.”49 Defining the degree to which a particular load 
or hybrid configuration relies on a particular grid service is not a simple or straightforward task. 
 
49 Post-Technical Conference Comments of Google in AD24-11-000, at 5 (emphasis original). 

--- PAGE 29 ---
 
29
As it untangles this question, the Commission should refer to the record in Docket No. EL25-49 
et al. (PJM Show Cause) for discussion of various configurations of hybrid facilities and their 
use of network transmission service and various different ancillary services. 
 
11. Principle Thirteen: If the Commission creates a new FERC-
jurisdictional large load interconnection process, there must be a 
transition plan to implement proposed reforms that avoids pausing 
large load interconnections 
 
Should the Commission move forward with a proposal to impose new requirements and 
standards on large load interconnections and/or create a new FERC-jurisdictional large load 
interconnection process, it is critical to avoid upending existing arrangements and to provide a 
clear and fair transition to the new rules. Consistent with the goal of facilitating growth of 
domestic manufacturing and AI innovation “efficiently, fairly, and expeditiously,” any transition 
to new rules must not result in a pause in processing of new large load interconnections as new 
rules go into effect—which could take years, even if the Commission meets the April 30, 2026 
deadline for a final rule.  
The ANOPR seeks comment on “appropriate transition plans.”50 At minimum, United 
urges that any facility with a signed Energy Service Agreement should not be subject to new 
rules/process and its ESA should not be touched. For loads at an earlier stage of the 
interconnection process, United recommends a transition process analogous to that required by 
Order No. 2023, wherein projects that have entered or are nearing completion of the currently-
applicable process have multiple options to either proceed through the existing process or select 
the new process, depending on what phase of the current process they are in.51 Without a well-
 
50 ANOPR at P 30. 
51 184 FERC ¶ 61,054, ”Order No. 2023,” at P 855. 

--- PAGE 30 ---
 
30
designed transition process, any reforms enacted by the Commission impacting the load 
interconnection process may be counterproductive to the goal of accelerating large load 
interconnections in the near-term. 
12. Principle Fourteen: Utilities serving large loads must be required to 
meet all applicable NERC reliability standards and OATT 
provisions 
 
Finally, the ANOPR finds that “utilities serving large loads must meet all applicable 
NERC reliability standards and OATT provisions.”52 United agrees with this principle, and notes 
that NERC has been working on large load integration issues for years, and has recently issued 
draft guidance.53 The Commission should leverage this work as it considers its own policies with 
respect to large load interconnection, and consider directing NERC to engage further in efforts to 
align standards with the kinds of capabilities for flexible and hybrid loads envisioned throughout 
the ANOPR. 
 
C. Other Considerations 
 
In addition to specifically addressing issues related to the interconnection of new large 
loads, the Commission should continue to prioritize related workstreams to ensure that the 
system overall is equipped to absorb these new loads affordably and reliably. This means 
prioritizing further improvements in the following areas: 
• Transmission planning. Order No. 1920 and 1920-A will lead to more robust, scenario-
based transmission planning that will unlock no-regrets regional transmission 
 
52 ANOPR at P 31. 
53 North American Electric Reliability Corporation, Preliminary Draft: Reliability Guideline, Risk mitigation for 
Emerging Large Loads (May 2026), 
https://www.nerc.com/comm/RSTC_Reliability_Guidelines/ReliabilityGuideline_RiskMitigationForEmergingLarge
Loads.pdf.  

--- PAGE 31 ---
 
31
investments with unprecedented state involvement. The benefits of better preparing the 
transmission system for future needs will take time to materialize, but ensuring full and 
expedient implementation will shorten the wait. 
• Generator interconnection: Order No. 2023 will speed the process of interconnecting 
new resources to the grid, allowing supply to more nimbly keep up with demand. Further 
reforms and process improvements—such as adoption of automation tools—will bring 
additional efficiencies. Advanced Energy United’s perspectives on additional 
opportunities to reduce the timeline and uncertainty of the generator interconnection 
process can be found in post-workshop comments in AD24-9-000.54 
• Demand response and distributed energy resource integration: When fully 
implemented, Order No. 2222 will better enable distributed energy resources to 
participate through aggregations to provide energy, capacity, and ancillary services, 
expanding the set of technologies participating in RTO/ISO markets and thus increasing 
competition and lowering costs. However, FERC should encourage RTOs/ISOs to pursue 
additional improvements through Section 205 filings. These could include, but not be 
limited to, expanding DR participation models and resolving information access and 
coordination challenges.   
• Resource adequacy: Maintaining resource adequacy in an era of load growth was a 
central topic during the Commission’s two-day technical conference on Resource 
Adequacy in AD25-7. Much of the work in this area will be region-specific and should 
stem from the RTOs/ISOs. Indeed, several regions are already working on significant 
 
54  Advanced Energy United, American Clean Power Association, and Solar Energy Industries Association, Post 
Conference Comments, Docket No. AD24-9-000 (Nov. 14, 2025).  

--- PAGE 32 ---
 
32
reforms. Advanced Energy United’s perspectives on resource adequacy priorities can be 
found in post-conference comments submitted in that proceeding.55 
• Load forecasting: Perhaps most importantly, the Commission should ensure that load 
forecasts impacting any element of Commission-jurisdictional rates, terms, and 
conditions of service receive adequate scrutiny to avoid the over-building and unjust and 
unreasonable prices that would result from inaccurate, inflated forecasts.56 This issue 
arguably can and should be tackled as part of the instant proceeding, but was mentioned 
only briefly in the ANOPR. 
Importantly, all of the actions above area squarely within the Commission’s well-established 
jurisdiction, and the Commission has already made important progress in most of these areas. 
Remaining committed to reforms already underway and pursuing additional improvements will 
promote affordability and reliability for all customers while enabling faster entry of new large 
loads. 
 
D. Process and Timing 
 
DOE’s Large Loads Letter rightly reflects the urgency of the moment: every day that we 
do not have certainty regarding the rules governing large load flexibility and co-location is a step 
backward when we need to be accelerating the pace of forward progress. Advanced Energy 
United encourages the Commission to meet DOE’s April 30, 2026 deadline for final action to the 
 
55 Clean Energy Associations, Post Conference Comments, Docket No. AD25-7-000 (July 7, 2025). 
56See Letter from Chairman Rosner, Federal Energy Regul. Comm’n, to Reg’l Transmission Operators and Indep. 
Sys. Operators (Sept. 18, 2025); Advanced Energy United, Response, Docket No. EL25-49-000 (April 23, 2025); 
Americans for a Clean Energy Grid, Response, Docket No. EL25-49-000 (April 23, 2025); Letter from Electricity 
Customer Alliance, to Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (May 30, 2025), appended to Post-Technical 
Conference Comments in Docket No. AD25-7-000 and available at https://www.electricitycustomers.com/s/Joint-
Customer-Letter-to-FERC-re-Load-Forecasting-53025.pdf.  
 

--- PAGE 33 ---
 
33
extent feasible. At the same time, the Commission must recognize that failure to produce a final 
rule that thoughtfully resolves the myriad complex issues raised by the ANOPR could lead to 
more delay and uncertainty in the future. The Commission should expend every possible effort to 
deliver a timely rulemaking, while also ensuring adequate due diligence to develop durable, 
useful solutions that large loads will have full confidence utilizing. As noted above, the 
Commission should also consider moving forward on a more expedited basis on those elements 
of the ANOPR that are severable and that have more uniform stakeholder support. 
The Commission should also reiterate the important final sentence of the ANOPR, which 
affirms that the proposal is “not intended in any way to discourage public utilities from making 
filings to address these and similar issues under FPA section 205.”57As discussed throughout 
these comments, many states and RTOs/ISOs are already tackling several of the issues raised in 
the ANOPR. Best practices and regional differences should be allowed to emerge from these 
processes. 
Finally, the Commission should continue to convene stakeholders and get input and ideas 
through a variety of channels, including but not limited to formal comments in this proceeding. 
Over the past year, the Commission has convened technical conferences on co-location, resource 
adequacy, and reliability, all of which have touched on issues directly or indirectly related to the 
rapid influx of new large loads. These conversations have been constructive in identifying 
common themes and differences, exposing challenges or tension points, and spreading emerging 
solutions. Given the dynamic nature of current load growth, a nimble, flexible, and responsive 
approach will be needed going forward. 
 
 
57 ANOPR at P 32. 

--- PAGE 34 ---
 
34
 
III. 
CONCLUSION 
 
Maintaining electricity reliability and affordability while enabling the rapid growth of 
new large loads is the biggest challenge and opportunity facing the electricity sector today, and 
the Commission can and should play an important role in ensuring fair, expedient, and 
transparent rules and processes for bringing online and serving these new large loads. Advanced 
Energy United appreciates the Commission’s consideration of the above comments and looks 
forward to working with the Commission, states, and other stakeholders on the myriad issues 
related to large load interconnection as the Commission identifies and acts on priorities in this 
proceeding.  
 
Respectfully submitted,   
 
/s/ Caitlin Marquis  
 
 
Caitlin Marquis, Managing Director   
Michael Haugh, Director  
Kelsey Koenig, Associate 
Advanced Energy United   
1801 Pennsylvania Ave. NW, Suite 410  
Washington, D.C. 20006  
(202) 380-1950   
cmarquis@advancedenergyunited.org  
mhaugh@advancedenergyunited.org  
kkoenig@advancedenergyunited.org  
   
 
