--- PAGE 1 ---
 
1 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the  
Interstate Transmission System 
) 
Docket No. 
RM26-4-000 
 
COMMENTS OF ISO NEW ENGLAND INC. 
 
Pursuant to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (“FERC” or 
“Commission”) Notice Inviting Comments issued on October 27, 2025 in the above-
referenced docket, ISO New England Inc. (“ISO-NE”) respectfully submits these 
comments in response to the Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) that 
the Secretary of Energy (“Secretary”) released on October 23, 2025 for consideration and 
final action by FERC.   
In the ANOPR, the Secretary directs FERC to initiate rulemaking procedures and 
consider the ANOPR presenting potential reforms to ensure the timely and orderly 
interconnection of large loads1 to the transmission system.  The ANOPR includes a set of 
principles to inform the Commission’s rulemaking procedures.  ISO-NE is providing 
comments for some of those principles for the Commission’s consideration in the 
development of proposed reforms.  ISO-NE looks forward to working with the Commission 
and stakeholders in ensuring that large loads are timely and orderly interconnected to the 
New England transmission system.  
I. 
IDENTIFICATION OF ISO-NE; COMMUNICATIONS 
ISO-NE is a private, non-profit entity that serves as the regional transmission 
organization (“RTO”) for New England. ISO-NE operates the New England bulk power 
 
1 For purposes of the ANOPR, large loads are defined as greater than 20 MW, consistent with how FERC has 
defined large generation resources.   

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
2 
 
system and administers New England’s organized wholesale electricity market pursuant to 
the ISO New England Transmission, Markets, and Services Tariff (“ISO-NE Tariff”) and 
the Transmission Operating Agreement.2 In its capacity as an RTO, ISO-NE also has the 
objective to assure that the bulk power system within the New England Control Area 
conforms to the proper standards of reliability as established by the Northeast Power 
Coordinating Council (“NPCC”) and the North American Electric Reliability Corporation 
(“NERC”). 
All correspondence and communications concerning these comments should be 
sent to the following person at the address shown: 
Margoth Caley, Esq. 
Chief Regulatory Compliance Counsel 
ISO New England Inc. 
One Sullivan Road 
Holyoke, MA 01040-2841 
Tel: (413) 387-2408 
Fax: (413) 535-4379 
mcaley@iso-ne.com 
 
II. 
INTRODUCTION 
ISO-NE agrees that clear principles and rules are needed for the interconnection of 
large loads and hybrid facilities to the transmission system.  The development of these 
principles and rules could be informed, in part, by the robust processes that already exist in 
New England, including those supporting administration of requests for Regional Network 
Service (“RNS”) and Interconnection Service.  These processes were recently revised as 
part of the New England region’s efforts to comply with FERC Order Nos. 2023 and 2023-
 
2 Capitalized terms used but not defined in these Comments have the meaning ascribed to them in the ISO-NE 
Tariff. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
3 
 
A.3 
In New England, Eligible Customers seeking to interconnect their load to Pool 
Transmission Facilities (“PTF”) for wholesale service proceed under ISO-NE’s RNS 
process set forth in Section II.B of the ISO-NE Open Access Transmission Tariff 
(“OATT”).4 State laws in each of the New England states may impact a large load’s 
eligibility to take wholesale service under the ISO-NE OATT. 
RNS is the ISO-NE-administered regional integrated transmission service that 
allows Network Customers to use the PTF to move electricity into or within the New 
England Control Area to serve load in the area.  In return for this service, a Network 
Customer pays a monthly transmission rate based on its share of the Local Network’s 
aggregate Monthly Regional Network Load, as measured by the Network Customer’s 
hourly demand during the Local Network’s peak.   
Load seeking service while connecting to non-PTF transmission facilities proceeds 
under the Local Service (“LS”) process,5 where studies performed to support LS requests 
are administered by the applicable Participating Transmission Owner, as the Transmission 
Service Provider. 
Prior to the FERC Order Nos. 2023 and 2023-A-related OATT revisions, the RNS 
process included a serial study framework that was coordinated with the studies for other 
service requests included in the ISO-NE interconnection queue.  Under the OATT revisions 
made to comply with FERC Order Nos. 2023 and 2023-A, which became effective on 
 
3 See Improvements to Generator Interconnection Procs. & Agreements, Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054, order 
on reh’g, 185 FERC ¶ 61,063 (2023) (“FERC Order No. 2023”), order on reh’g, Order No. 2023-A, 186 FERC ¶ 
61,199, errata notice, 188 FERC ¶ 61,134 (2024) (“FERC Order No. 2023-A”).  See also ISO New England Inc., 
191 FERC ¶ 61,018 (2025). 
4 The OATT is Section II of the ISO-NE Tariff. 
5 See Schedule 21 to the OATT, which provides the terms and conditions for local service from the various 
Participating Transmission Owners.   

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
4 
 
August 12, 2024, RNS requests are included in the regional Cluster Study Process 
framework used for requests for Interconnection Service pursuant to ISO-NE’s Large 
Generator Interconnection Procedures,6 Small Generator Interconnection Procedures,7 and 
Elective Transmission Upgrade Interconnection Procedures.8  RNS requests requiring 
study must follow the process and procedures of the Cluster Study and Facilities Study.  If 
ISO-NE determines that upgrades are required to accommodate the RNS request, the costs 
of the upgrades required will be allocated to the Eligible Customer in a manner consistent 
with how costs for Generator Interconnection Related Upgrades are allocated to 
Interconnection Customers under Schedule 11 of the OATT.  These new constructs can 
inform the development of proposed reforms to facilitate the implementation of the 
ANOPR’s Principle 3, which is discussed further below.   
III. 
COMMENTS ON PRINCIPLES 
1. Principle 1: The Commission’s jurisdiction should be limited to interconnections 
directly to transmission facilities, consistent with the Commission’s seven factor test. 
ISO-NE Comment: While the ANOPR does not request comments on this principle, 
ISO-NE recommends that the Commission clarify whether the Commission’s 
jurisdiction is asserted solely for the process of reviewing large load interconnections 
(i.e., clarity is needed on whether the Commission’s jurisdiction extends to the 
provision of transmission service).  If the Commission’s jurisdiction is asserted solely 
for the process of reviewing large load interconnections, then clarity is also needed on 
whether the Commission’s jurisdiction is solely based on where a large load or hybrid 
 
6 Schedule 22 to the OATT. 
7 Schedule 23 to the OATT. 
8 Schedule 25 to the OATT. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
5 
 
facility is interconnecting to the existing transmission system (in the case of New 
England, the Administered Transmission System, which comprises PTF and Non-PTF), 
regardless of whether the large load or hybrid facility is eligible to take wholesale 
service under the OATT (i.e., regardless of whether the large load or hybrid facility is 
pursuing wholesale service, retail service, or another form of service).  Clarity with 
respect to the jurisdictional lines will facilitate implementation, especially given that 
state laws in each of the New England states may impact ISO-NE’s ability to provide 
transmission service to interconnected large loads.  In addition, if the Commission 
concludes that the seven-factor test should be used to determine the interconnection of 
large loads, ISO-NE submits that clarity should be provided on who would apply the 
test to make that determination.  The Commission should provide flexibility for the 
New England region to formulate interconnection procedures that apply to transmission 
facilities that are already classified as PTF or Non-PTF. 
2. Principle 2: Consistent with the Commission’s pro forma Large Generator 
Interconnection Procedures and Large Generator Interconnection Agreement, the 
reforms should only apply to new loads greater than 20 MW and, for hybrid facilities, 
where the load is greater than 20 MW.  FERC seeks comments on alternative 
thresholds, including whether such a threshold is necessary at all. 
ISO-NE Comments: ISO-NE is generally supportive of applying a MW threshold for 
the application of a FERC-jurisdictional interconnection process.  A MW threshold, 
however, should be clearly defined.  For example, is the proposed 20 MW threshold 
based on the maximum load, average load, or something else, and where is the load 
level measured?  In addition, rules for interconnection of large loads should address 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
6 
 
interconnection of projects in stages.  For example, consider a large load customer’s 
proposal to interconnect 30 MW in two stages of 15 MW each.  ISO-NE submits that 
the aggregate total of 30 MW should be captured in the supporting interconnection 
study to fully evaluate the system impacts of the total amount of load (in the example, 
30 MW). 
3. Principle 3: To the extent practicable, load and hybrid facilities should be studied 
together with generating facilities.  Such an approach will allow for efficient siting of 
loads and generating facilities and thereby minimize the need for costly network 
upgrades.  For example, siting a large load near or at the same point of interconnection 
as a new generating facility could reduce the network upgrades needed to interconnect 
only the load or only the generating facility. 
ISO-NE Comments: While the ANOPR does not request comments on this principle, 
ISO-NE offers that this construct exists in New England for RNS requests for new load 
that require study.  Specifically, those requests are included in Cluster Studies 
conducted pursuant to ISO-NE’s Interconnection Procedures.  The principle should 
also establish that upgrades identified in the Cluster Studies (and the corresponding cost 
responsibility for such upgrades) will be limited to the requests for projects that were 
part of the same Cluster that included the load and/or hybrid facility.   Without this 
limitation, there could be a potential increase of restudies of previously completed 
Cluster Studies.  For instance, if a new load is proposed for the ongoing Cluster Study, 
an Interconnection Customer for a generator project included in a previously completed 
Cluster Study could seek restudy of that Cluster Study in order to possibly reduce 
previously identified upgrades for the generator.  This could negatively impact the 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
7 
 
management and efficiency of the interconnection process. 
4. Principle 4: Like generating facilities, load and hybrid facilities should be subject to 
standardized study deposits, readiness requirements, and withdrawal penalties.  These 
provisions deter speculative projects and provide transmission providers with more 
useful information to more accurately forecast demand on their systems.  FERC seeks 
comments on the extent to which the existing study deposits, readiness requirements, 
and withdrawal penalties can be adopted.  FERC also seeks comments on whether 
additional commitments or financial penalties would be appropriate. 
ISO-NE Comments: ISO-NE agrees with this principle.  In addition, non-financial 
readiness requirements, such as site control, permits, and equipment orders, should also 
be included to ensure that only requests for “first ready,” viable, large load and hybrid 
facility projects enter the interconnection process.  Requests for speculative projects 
will slow down interconnection process activities, as identified and discussed in FERC 
Order No. 2023.9 
5. Principle 5: Hybrid facilities should be studied based on the amount of injection and/or 
withdrawal rights requested.  For example, a hybrid facility consisting of a 500 MW 
load and a 600MW generating facility may seek no withdrawal rights and 100 MW of 
injection rights.  This provides incentives for co-location with new generation facilities 
and ensures efficient buildout of the transmission system. 
ISO-NE Comments: While the ANOPR does not request comments on this principle, 
ISO-NE is supportive of this principle, the impacts of which would be reflected in study 
assumptions.  ISO-NE also notes that this principle would not negate the need for 
 
9 See FERC Order No. 2023 at PP 48-49, 59. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
8 
 
Interconnection Studies.  While this principle may reduce the need to conduct thermal 
analysis (which are typically straightforward and less time-consuming), other types of 
analysis such as short circuit, voltage, stability, and electromagnetic transient analyses 
(which are listed in increasing order of typical complexity and time needed to be 
conducted) would still be needed.  Moreover, some thermal analyses may be needed 
for proposed hybrid facilities in order to understand the impacts to the system when 
peak load or generation at a hybrid facility is lost (see ISO-NE Comments on Principle 
6).  Finally, this principle introduces the term “withdrawal rights.”  ISO-NE respectfully 
submits that clarity is needed with respect to how the concept of “withdrawal rights” 
fits with the currently established transmission service concepts and constructs. 
6. Principle 6: Any hybrid interconnection shall be required to install the system 
protection facilities necessary to prevent unauthorized injections or withdrawals that 
exceed the respective rights.  FERC seeks comments on whether other operational 
limitations should be considered.  FERC also seeks comments on the minimum 
technical requirements for such system protection facilities, whether a hybrid 
interconnection customer should be subject to penalties for unauthorized injections or 
withdrawals, how any such penalties should be designed, and how such penalties 
should be allocated to other transmission customers. 
ISO-NE Comments: In order for ISO-NE to provide comments regarding whether 
operational limitations should be considered, ISO-NE respectfully submits that clarity 
is needed on what those limitations would entail.  With respect to the technical 
requirements for protection facilities, ISO-NE believes that protection schemes must 
be simple, straightforward, and standardized.  In addition, protection schemes should 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
9 
 
only act behind a Point of Interconnection for conditions at the Point of Interconnection.  
Using more complex schemes would be unmanageable for operators, adding 
operational complexity risks.  For large loads and hybrid facilities seeking to 
interconnect, impacts of the protection equipment’s failure to operate when required to 
do so, or to operate when not required to do so, must be considered to inform protection 
design and redundancy.   
7. Principle 7: The interconnection study of large loads that agree to be curtailable and 
hybrid facilities that agree to be curtailable and dispatchable should be expedited.  The 
system operator's ability to control such facilities through curtailment and/or dispatch 
must be sufficient for the system operator to integrate the facility into both operations 
and system planning.  This ensures the timely and orderly addition of large loads to the 
transmission system in a safe, reliable, and non-discriminatory manner.  FERC seeks 
comment on whether this should be accomplished through a serial interconnection 
study process or by some other means.  FERC also seeks comments on appropriate 
deadlines for such an expedited study process, including whether such studies can be 
completed in 60 days. 
ISO-NE Comments: In order to accomplish an expedited large load study process for 
curtailable large loads, the terms and conditions related to when load is curtailed should 
be simple and clear as they will inform the study methodology.  An expedited large 
load study should be available only if the load is fully curtailable.  In addition, a large 
load that agrees to be curtailed should participate in a wholesale-market based program 
(e.g., as a Demand Response Resource or Dispatchable Asset Related Demand).  This 
is preferable to having a protocol for manual, out-of-market curtailment for large loads 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
10 
 
(e.g., an action prior to or within emergency operations such as those listed in ISO-
NE’s Operating Procedure No. 410).   The ability for the load to participate in the 
wholesale market would also have to be reconciled with the need for the load to have 
transmission service.  With respect to the proposed study timeline, ISO-NE is 
concerned that 60 days may not be enough time to complete required studies.  Although 
an expedited process may be achieved by reducing the need for certain thermal 
analyses, other analyses performed in the regular (i.e., non-expedited) interconnection 
process would still need to be performed for the expedited process (e.g., in order of 
increasing typical complexity, short circuit, voltage, stability, and electromagnetic 
transient analyses).  As with regular interconnection studies, the ability to complete 
expedited studies will depend on how many requests are in the queue.  Furthermore, 
any expedited studies may still require coordination with the underway Cluster Study 
if injections and/or withdrawals from the system would be allowed, even under limited 
conditions.   
8. 
Principle 8: Load and hybrid facilities should be responsible for 100% of the network 
upgrades that they are assigned through the interconnection studies.  FERC seeks 
comment on whether such costs should be offset through a crediting mechanism and, 
if so, over how many years. 
ISO-NE Comments: ISO-NE agrees with the principle that load and hybrid facilities 
should be fully responsible for upgrades needed to support their interconnections.  This 
construct exists today for RNS.11  The methodology used to assign responsibility for 
 
10 Available at: https://www.iso-ne.com/static-
assets/documents/rules_proceds/operating/isone/op4/op4_rto_final.pdf 
11 See Section 5 of Schedule 11 to the ISO-NE OATT. 

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
11 
 
upgrades and any crediting mechanism should be simple.   
9. 
Principle 10: An existing generating facility that seeks to enter a partial suspension to 
serve a new load at the same location must go through a system support resource 
(SSR)/reliability must run (“RMR”) type study.  The study must consider system 
conditions, including forecasted load growth, at least three years after the proposed 
suspension date.  The partial suspension can only proceed after any network upgrades 
needed to ensure reliability are placed into service.  Any such network upgrades shall 
be the responsibility of the generating facility.  FERC invites comments on whether 
and how resource adequacy should be considered in the SSR/RMR type study. 
ISO-NE Comments: FERC should provide clarity as to what is intended by this 
principle.  To the extent this principle relates to resource retirements, ISO-NE notes 
that its current processes for resource retirement requests do not consider resource 
adequacy as part of those requests.  Further clarity will help ascertain how this principle 
would fit within the existing New England constructs.  ISO-NE further notes that, while 
a resource retirement is usually related to a resource being uneconomic, a partial 
suspension to serve new load could be related to commercial potential.  Clarity is also 
needed regarding the definition of “partial suspension,” the consequences to a 
generating facility’s existing Interconnection Service, and the impact that changes to 
that service would have on the generating facility’s ability to participate in the energy 
and capacity markets.   
10. Principle 13: There must be a plan to implement these proposed reforms.  FERC seeks 
comments on appropriate transition plans, including the treatment of large load 
interconnections that are already being studied for interconnection. 

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
12 
 
ISO-NE Comments: ISO-NE agrees that there must be a plan to thoughtfully, 
efficiently, and properly implement any necessary changes resulting from the proposed 
reforms.  The following questions will need to be answered: (1) will the proposed 
reforms result in significant changes to the rules and constructs in the current ISO-NE 
Tariff?  (for example, will changes be needed to address interactions with, and potential 
conforming changes to, the current Interconnection Service and transmission service 
related rules, and will changes be needed to address interactions with capacity market 
rules?); (2) will the proposed reforms require transition of ongoing studies from one 
entity to another? (for example, will the proposed reforms require transition of ongoing 
studies from a Transmission Owner currently performing a study to an Independent 
System Operator?); and (3) will the proposed reforms introduce new types of 
transmission service and/or interconnection service? 
11. Principle 14: Utilities serving large loads must meet all applicable NERC reliability 
standards and OATT provisions.  Utilities and we must be prepared to revise large load 
interconnection procedures and agreements, as necessary.  NERC should review its 
reliability standards to determine if new registration categories or new or modified 
reliability standards are required to ensure reliability of the BES. 
ISO-NE Comments: While the ANOPR does not request comments on this principle, 
ISO-NE agrees with it, and submits that it should also include regional reliability 
criteria (e.g., NPCC criteria).  ISO-NE also believes that the Commission should 
provide clarity regarding who are the “utilities serving large loads” (is it the RTO as 
transmission service provider if the load is receiving RNS, the Transmission Owner if 
the load is receiving Load Network Service, or is it the ISO’s Regional Transmission 

--- PAGE 13 ---
 
13 
 
Service customer that provides retail service to the load?). 
IV. 
CONCLUSION 
ISO-NE appreciates the opportunity to provide comments on the ANOPR and looks 
forward to working with the Commission on these important reforms. 
Respectfully submitted, 
/s/ Margoth Caley 
Margoth Caley, Esq. 
Chief Regulatory Compliance Counsel 
ISO New England Inc. 
One Sullivan Road 
Holyoke, MA 01040  
 
Counsel for ISO New England Inc. 
 
 
Dated: November 21, 2025 
 
 

--- PAGE 14 ---
 
14 
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
I hereby certify that I have this day served the foregoing document upon each 
person designated on the official service list compiled by the Secretary in this proceeding. 
Dated at Holyoke, Massachusetts this 21st day of November 2025. 
 
/s/ Julie Horgan 
Julie Horgan 
eTariff Coordinator 
ISO New England 
Inc. One Sullivan 
Road Holyoke, 
MA 01040-2841 
(413) 540-4683 
 
 
