--- PAGE 1 ---
1 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the  
Interstate Transmission System  
) 
) 
) 
) 
 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
 
COMMENTS OF GERONIMO POWER, LLC 
 
Pursuant to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (“FERC” or “Commission”) 
October 27, 2025 Notice Inviting Comments,1 Geronimo Power, LLC (“Geronimo Power”) hereby 
submits these comments on the Secretary of Energy’s (“Secretary”) Advanced Notice of Proposed 
Rulemaking (“ANOPR”).2 
I. 
COMMENTS 
Geronimo Power appreciates the opportunity to submit comments on the ANOPR and the 
Secretary’s leadership on this important issue.  Geronimo Power urges the Commission to 
promptly move forward with a notice of proposed rulemaking and final rule in this proceeding that 
builds on many of the principles articulated in the ANOPR to ensure large loads may interconnect 
to the grid in an efficient, timely, and non-discriminatory manner that will enable the expedited 
development of industries that are key to America’s economic competitiveness while 
simultaneously mitigating impacts to the grid and its existing customers.  An interconnection 
process that provides large loads a pathway to power on the timeline industry demands is essential 
 
1 Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Docket No. RM26-4-000, Notice 
Inviting Comments (Oct. 27, 2025).  See also Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, 
Docket No. RM26-4-000, Notice Granting Extension of Time (Nov. 7, 2025).  
2 Secretary of Energy’s Direction that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Initiate Rulemaking 
Procedures and Proposal Regarding the Interconnection of Large Loads Pursuant to the Secretary’s Authority Under 
Section 403 of the Department of Energy Organization Act, Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, Ensuring the 
Timely and Orderly Interconnection of Large Loads (Oct. 23, 2025).  

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
 
for America to win the AI race, onshore industrial manufacturing, and maintain its position at the 
forefront of the global economy.  
The current load interconnection framework is falling short and legacy processes are 
proving incapable of meeting the demands of the industries of the future.  The longstanding 
paradigm in which load has been able to rely on obtaining service on a reasonable timeline by 
submitting a request to interconnect to the distribution network and receive service from the local 
utility is failing to deliver the service that data centers and other large loads demand.  At the same 
time, large loads seeking to interconnect to the grid face ad hoc and opaque study processes—to 
the extent that a formal process exists at all.3  And the novel interconnection and power supply 
solutions that could be used to meet the needs of large loads have been limited by regulatory 
hurdles and uncertainty.4   
The ANOPR presents the Commission with a generational opportunity to remedy these 
issues by establishing a framework for interconnecting large loads on a commercially reasonable 
timeline at the transmission-level.  Geronimo Power believes that the principles and framework 
set out in the ANOPR represent a foundation for the Commission’s efforts in this area.  Among 
other things, Geronimo Power supports: 
• establishing a process providing for the coordinated evaluation of load and 
generation facilities;5 
 
3 Amazon Data Services, Inc. v. PacifiCorp, d/b/a/ Pacific Power, Oregon Pub. Util. Comm’n Docket No. 
UM 2410, Complaint at P 6 (Oct. 30, 2025) (explaining that “after more than four years … PacifiCorp has not met its 
contractual or statutory requirements for any of the Data Center Campuses.  PacifiCorp is supplying significantly less 
power than promised to the first Data Center Campus…, has delivered no power to the second…, and has refused to 
even complete its own standard contracting process for the third and fourth Data Center Campuses…”). 
4 See, e.g., PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 189 FERC ¶ 61,078 (2024); PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 190 FERC 
¶ 61,115 (2025). 
5 ANOPR at P 20. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
 
• studying hybrid facilities based on the quantity of injection and/or withdrawal rights 
requested along with installation of system protection facilities to prevent 
unauthorized injections or withdrawals;6 
• providing customers with the same (or equivalent) option to build currently 
provided to generator interconnection customers;7 and 
• assigning large load customers responsibility for the network upgrades needed to 
accommodate their request to interconnect.8 
Geronimo Power urges the Commission to build upon the principles articulated in the 
ANOPR to establish a platform for the interconnection of large loads to the transmission system 
that is consistent with the jurisdictional lines drawn by the Federal Power Act (“FPA”) and ensures 
the timely and orderly interconnection of large loads.  Geronimo Power submits these comments 
on a limited subset of issues raised by the ANOPR to encourage the Commission to both avoid 
adopting a final rule that repeats the flaws that have plagued the Commission’s generator 
interconnection process by going beyond financial demonstrations of readiness to adopt criteria 
tailored to ensure the viability of large load requests and to adopt principles which ensure that large 
loads pay for service and grid infrastructure based on their impact on the grid consistent with the 
cost causation principle. 
A. 
The Terms And Conditions For Interconnecting Large Loads To The 
Transmission System Fall Squarely Within The Commission’s Jurisdiction 
 
A process governing how large loads interconnect to the interstate transmission system falls 
squarely within the Commission’s jurisdictional mandate.  The FPA provides the Commission with 
exclusive authority to regulate the rates, terms, and conditions of transmission in interstate 
 
6 Id. at PP 22, 23.   
7 Id. at P 26.   
8 Id. at P 25. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
 
commerce as well as any rules and regulations affecting such rates.9  This authority extends to 
regulating the rates, terms, and conditions imposed (or that public utilities decline to impose) on 
customers seeking access to the interstate transmission system.10  Indeed, the courts and 
Commission have recognized that the rates, terms, and conditions for interconnection service are 
a critical component of transmission service.11  There is also ample evidence that large loads have 
a significant impact on the interstate electric transmission system.12  Thus, there should be little 
question that the rates, terms, and conditions imposed by public utilities for access to the 
transmission system fall within FERC’s jurisdiction under the FPA. 
Geronimo Power expects that some commenters will attempt to cast doubt on the 
Commission’s authority over load interconnection on the grounds that any effort to regulate the 
interconnection of large loads infringes on state jurisdiction.  Such arguments, however, are wholly 
unsupported by the plain language of the FPA and decades of precedent.  Courts have found that 
the Commission’s authority under the FPA to regulate the interstate transmission of electric energy 
is not confined by whether the transmission is for a wholesale or retail sale.13  The “FPA authorizes 
 
9 16 U.S.C. § 824(b) (stating that federal regulation “shall apply to the transmission of electric energy in 
interstate commerce and to the sale of electric energy at wholesale in interstate commerce.”); 16 U.S.C. § 824d(a) 
(recognizing that FERC has jurisdiction over all rules and regulations affecting or pertaining to rates and charges 
imposed by a public utility in connection with the transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce).  
10 S.C. Pub. Serv. Auth. v. FERC, 762 F.3d 41, 49 (D.C. Cir. 2014).  
11 Standardization of Generator Interconnection Agreements and Procedures, Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 
61,103, at P 12 (2003) (“Order No. 2003”), order on reh’g, Order No. 2003‐A, 106 FERC ¶ 61,220 (2004), order on 
reh’g, Order No. 2003‐B, 109 FERC ¶ 61,287 (2005), order on reh’g, Order No. 2003‐C, 111 FERC ¶ 61,401 (2005), 
aff’d sub nom., National Ass’n of Regulatory Comm’rs v. FERC, 475 F.3d 1277 (D.C. Cir. 2007).  See also Tennessee 
Power Co., 90 FERC ¶ 61,238, 61,761 (2000) (“Interconnection is an element of transmission service and is already 
required to be provided under our pro forma tariff.”). 
12 See, e.g., N. Am. Elec. Reliability Corp., Characteristics and Risks of Emerging Large Loads at v (July 
2025), available at: https://www.nerc.com/initiatives/large-loads-action-plan (“There is already evidence that large 
loads impact BPS reliability.  For example, the Eastern and Electric Reliability Council of Texas … Interconnections 
have observed load-reduction events with each Interconnection experiencing approximately 1,500 MW of voltage-
sensitive load reduction.  The event in the Eastern Interconnection was primarily attributed to data centers and other 
power electronic loads … transferring load to backup generation and caused frequency overshoot and high voltages.”) 
(citations omitted).  
13 New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1, 20-22 (2002). 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
 
FERC’s jurisdiction over interstate transmissions, without regard to whether the transmissions are 
sold to a reseller or directly to a consumer…”14 As Justice Clarence Thomas succinctly stated, “the 
only jurisdictional line that the statute draws with regard to transmission is between interstate and 
intrastate. Congress does not qualify its grant to FERC of jurisdiction over interstate 
transmission.”15  
The fact that a large load interconnection process may affect retail sales is not determinative 
of whether the Commission has jurisdiction to adopt such a process.   Arguments asserting that 
FERC is impermissibly infringing on state jurisdiction by adopting a transmission rule that may 
affect state jurisdictional matters have the analysis backwards.16  FERC has jurisdiction over the 
rates, terms, and conditions under which access is provided to the transmission system.17  The fact 
that a FERC regulation addressing interstate transmission may have an incidental effect on matters 
outside of the Commission’s jurisdiction “is of no legal consequence” to the Commission’s 
jurisdictional analysis because “a FERC regulation does not run afoul of [the FPA’s] proscription 
just because it affects — even substantially — the quantity or terms of retail sales.”18  
This analysis extends equally to the charges for transmission and ancillary services, as the 
ANOPR contemplates.19   FERC plainly has authority to determine the rates, terms, and conditions 
 
14 Id. at 20.  
15 Id. (Thomas, J., dissenting at 37-38).  
16 Hughes v. Talen Energy Mktg., LLC, 578 U.S. 150, 164 (2016) (“States may not seek to achieve ends, 
however legitimate, through regulatory means that intrude on FERC’s authority over interstate wholesale rates.”); 
Nat’l Ass’n of Regulatory Util. Comm’rs v. FERC, 143, 964 F.3d 1177, 1187 (D.C. Cir. 2020) (“While the FPA creates 
two separate zones of jurisdiction, the Supremacy Clause creates uneven playing fields.”); N. Nat. Gas Co. v. State 
Corp. Comm’n of Kan., 372 U.S. 84, 93 (1963) (“Not the federal but the state regulation must be subordinated, when 
Congress has so plainly occupied the regulatory field.”). 
17 FERC v. Elec. Power Supply Ass'n, 577 U.S. 260, 278 (2016) (“For that reason, an earlier D.C. Circuit 
decision adopted, and we now approve, a common-sense construction of the FPA’s language, limiting FERC’s 
‘affecting’ jurisdiction to rules or practices that ‘directly affect the [wholesale] rate.’”). 
18 Id. at 281.  
19 ANOPR at PP 28-29.  

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
 
of transmission service.20  And ancillary services support the provision of transmission service.21  
A final rule that specifies the rates, terms, and conditions of transmission and ancillary services 
will pose no jurisdictional concerns.   
A final rule that only regulates the interconnection of large loads to the transmission system 
and the rates, terms, and conditions of such interconnection service will also not infringe on two 
other areas expressly reserved to the states under the FPA: facilities used for the generation of 
energy or facilities used in local distribution.22  Nothing in the ANOPR contemplates the 
Commission asserting jurisdiction over the determination of what generation facilities will be built 
or where such facilities will be sited.  States will continue to have authority to make their own 
resource decisions, including whether resources may be co-located with large loads.  And so long 
as any final rule is directed solely at transmission-level interconnections, the Commission will not 
be infringing on states’ jurisdiction over local distribution facilities.23  
The firm jurisdictional grounds upon which the principles articulated in the ANOPR stand 
are further supported by FERC’s authority over matters affecting wholesale rates.  Courts have 
repeatedly held that the Commission has authority to regulate matters that directly affect rates 
 
20 New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1, 12 (2002) (“[U]nbundled transmission service involves only the provision 
of ‘transmission in interstate commerce’ which, under the FPA, is exclusively within the jurisdiction of the 
Commission.”).  See also S.C. Pub. Serv. Auth. v. FERC, 762 F.3d 41, 54–58 (D.C. Cir. 2014) (finding regional 
transmission planning and cost allocation are practices subject to FERC’s jurisdiction).  
21 Promoting Wholesale Competition Through Open Access Non-discriminatory Transmission Services by 
Pub. Utils.; Recovery of Stranded Costs by Pub. Utils. and Transmitting Utils., Order No. 888, 61 Fed. Reg. 12540, 
21581 (1996), on reh’g, Order No. 888-A, FERC Stats. & Regs. 31,048 (1997), on reh’g, Order No. 888-B, 81 FERC 
¶ 61,248 (1997), on reh’g, Order No. 888-C, 82 FERC ¶ 61,046 (1998), aff’d in relevant part sub nom. Transmission 
Access Policy Study Group v. FERC, 225 F.3d 667 (D.C. Cir. 2000), aff’d sub nom. New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1 
(2002) (“We will require that an open access transmission tariff include the six ancillary services that we have 
identified as necessary for the transmission provider to offer to transmission customers. These are needed to 
accomplish transmission service while maintaining reliability within and among control areas affected by the 
transmission service.”). 
22 16 U.S.C. § 824(b)(1).  
23 See Nat’l Ass’n of Regulatory Util. Comm’rs v. FERC, 475 F.3d 1277, 1282 (D.C. Cir. 2007).  

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
 
subject to FERC’s jurisdiction.24  The dramatic increase in load growth driven predominantly by 
new large loads seeking to interconnect is unquestionably directly affecting wholesale rates.25  The 
Independent Market Monitor for PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. has asserted that “[d]ata center load 
growth is the primary reason for recent and expected capacity market conditions, including total 
forecast load growth, the tight supply and demand balance, and high prices” and has led to “a 
combined total increase in capacity market revenues for the 2025/2026 [Base Residual Auction 
(“BRA”)] and the 2026/2027 BRA of $16,603,301,829.”26  There is simply not a reasonable basis 
to find that large loads are not having a direct (and substantial) effect on wholesale rates.  
Moreover, the ANOPR is significantly more modest in its exercise of FERC’s “affecting” 
jurisdiction than other FERC rules which courts have nevertheless upheld.  For instance, courts 
have found that FERC’s “affecting” jurisdiction extends to prohibiting states and utilities from 
preventing certain resources from participating in wholesale markets even when such resources 
are interconnecting at the distribution level.27  Given that the large load interconnection process 
contemplated by the ANOPR addresses only transmission-level load interconnections and the 
allocation of costs for transmission service,28 arguments that the Commission does not have 
“affecting” jurisdiction to adopt a transmission-level large load interconnection process are 
fundamentally misguided. 
Finally, the ANOPR and the principles it articulates appear to contemplate a large load 
interconnection process that is radically different than the process recently rejected by the 
 
24 FERC v. Elec. Power Supply Ass’n, 577 U.S. 260, 278 (2016). 
25 See, e.g., Josh Saul, et al., AI Data Centers Are Sending Power Bills Soaring, Bloomberg (Sept. 29, 2025), 
https://www.bloomberg.com/graphics/2025-ai-data-centers-electricity-prices/. 
26 Monitoring Analytics, LLC, 2025 State of the Market Report for PJM: January through September at 1 
(Nov. 13, 2025), available at: https://www.monitoringanalytics.com/reports/PJM_State_of_the_Market/2025.shtml. 
27 Nat’l Ass’n of Regulatory Util. Comm’rs v. FERC, 143, 964 F.3d 1177, 1187 (D.C. Cir. 2020).  
28 ANOPR at P 14 (“[T]he interconnection of large loads to the transmission system falls under a practice 
directly affecting Commission-jurisdictional wholesale electricity rates.”). 

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 
 
Commission in Tri-State Generation and Transmission Association, Inc.29  In Tri-State, the 
Commission rejected a transmission provider’s load interconnection proposal on the grounds that 
it “appear[ed] to present an impermissible intrusion on retail rate regulation and thus [is] not 
subject to the Commission’s authority pursuant to section 205 of the FPA.”30  The Tri-State 
proposal, however, sought to require load interconnecting through the proposed interconnection 
process to enter into contracts with the transmission provider’s members containing minimum 
monthly demand and energy requirements.31  The Commission found that as a result of these 
requirements, the transmission provider’s proposed FERC-jurisdictional interconnection process 
would result in the terms and conditions of retail service being impermissibly regulated by FERC.32  
No such concerns are presented by the ANOPR.  Rather the ANOPR makes clear that it 
only contemplates a process pursuant to which the Commission would regulate the interconnection 
of large loads to the transmission system.33  The ANOPR does not contemplate, and FERC should 
not adopt, a rule that sets forth any terms of retail service.  So long as the final rule adopted by the 
Commission in this proceeding is consistent with the approach articulated by the ANOPR, the 
Commission will be acting squarely within the jurisdictional bounds drawn by the FPA.  
B. 
A Final Rule Must Avoid The Flaws Of The Generator Interconnection Process 
By Imposing Meaningful Viability Criteria 
 
In Order No. 2003, the Commission adopted standardized generator interconnection 
procedures to remedy undue discrimination by incumbent utilities in the generator interconnection 
process and remove barriers to entry associated with “an inadequate and inefficient” case-by-case 
 
29 Tri-State Generation and Transmission Association, Inc., 193 FERC ¶ 61,070 (2025) (“Tri-State”). 
30 Id. at P 45.  
31 Id. at P 48. 
32 Id. at PP 49-50. 
33 ANOPR at P 15 (“Even if the large load seeking to interconnect to the transmission system is an end-use 
customer, the proposal does not exert jurisdiction over any retail sales to the large load.”).  

--- PAGE 9 ---
9 
 
approach to generator interconnections.34  A key component of the generator interconnection 
procedures adopted by the Commission was the requirement that transmission providers provide 
open access to interconnect based on the order in which interconnection requests were received.35  
This requirement—which came to be known as the first come, first served principle36—
incentivized developers and utilities to submit a multitude of interconnection requests to hold a 
place in the generator interconnection queue irrespective of the relative likelihood that a project 
would reach commercial operation.37   
The volume of interconnection requests the Commission’s process incentivized led to 
bloated interconnection queues with many more gigawatts of capacity than could be meaningfully 
studied,38 cascading restudies when higher queued projects withdrew,39 and near decade long wait 
times for viable projects to interconnect to the grid.40  While the Commission and transmission 
providers have in recent years taken steps to limit the number of interconnection requests that may 
be submitted and adopted cluster study processes that more efficiently study generator 
 
34 Order No. 2003 at P 10.  
35 Id. at P 131. 
36 Xcel Energy Servs. v. FERC, 41 F.4th 548, 550 (D.C. Cir. 2022) (“Under Commission rules, grid operators 
generally must consider requests to connect on a first-come, first-served basis.”). 
37 Improvements to Generator Interconnection Procedures and Agreements, Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 
61,054, at P 48 (2023) (“Order No. 2023”), order on reh’g, Order No. 2023-A, 186 FERC ¶ 61,199 (2024) (explaining 
that components of existing interconnection process “incentivize interconnection customers to submit speculative 
interconnection requests that contribute to interconnection study backlogs, delays, and uncertainty, and, in turn, unjust 
and unreasonable Commission-jurisdictional rates.”). 
38 See, e.g., Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., Docket No. ER25-507-000, Revisions to the Open 
Access Transmission, Energy and Operating Reserve Tariff Queue Cap Proposal and Exemptions to the Queue Cap 
Proposal Transmittal Letter at 15 (Nov. 21, 2024) (“The exponential growth of the MISO queue alone makes providing 
accurate modeling data nearly impossible.  To capture the impact of an Interconnection Request on the Transmission 
System, MISO must study that Interconnection Request at its full output according to fuel-based dispatch assumptions.  
These studies establish the Network Upgrades needed to accommodate that request.  This process becomes 
increasingly difficult when the proposed generation in a queue cycle far exceeds the projected peak load.”) (citations 
omitted).  
39 See, e.g., Order No. 2023 at PP 177, 455, 793.  
40 See, e.g., Brookfield, Building the Backbone of AI at 14 (Aug. 2025), available at: 
https://www.brookfield.com/sites/default/files/documents/Brookfield_Building_the_Backbone_of_AI.pdf?  (“In the 
U.S., interconnection queues average six years, pushing 10 years in markets like California.”). 

--- PAGE 10 ---
10 
 
interconnection requests,41 the historic failures of the Commission’s generator interconnection 
process to timely connect new resources have exacerbated resource adequacy challenges42 and led 
to certain transmission providers adopting reforms that erode the open access principles that 
precipitated the Commission’s adoption of Order No. 2003.43  
As Geronimo Power and its then affiliates noted in their post-workshop comments 
submitted in Docket No. ER24-9-000, Geronimo Power believes that many of the problems of 
existing queues can be traced back to an overreliance on escalating milestone and security 
requirements to screen out speculative requests.44  Geronimo Power believes that solving the issues 
plaguing existing interconnection processes will require structural reforms that employ novel 
approaches to prioritization that ensure that the “best” projects move forward efficiently through 
the interconnection process, deter the submission of speculative requests, and take a broader view 
of the factors that ultimately determine project success.45    
 
41 See, e.g., Order No 2023 at PP 177, 502; Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., Docket No. ER25-507-
000, Revisions to the Open Access Transmission, Energy and Operating Reserve Tariff Queue Cap Proposal and 
Exemptions to the Queue Cap Proposal Transmittal Letter (Nov. 21, 2024); Cal. Indep. Sys. Operator Corp., 188 
FERC ¶ 61,225, at P 103 (2024), order on reh’g, 193 FERC ¶ 61,117 (2025) (“CAISO states that, as explained at 
greater length in its Transmittal, the avalanche of pending interconnection requests and the limited transmission 
deliverability planned for the CAISO-controlled grid requires CAISO to apply some rational basis to limit the requests 
seeking deliverability to be studied in each cluster.”).  
42 See, e.g., Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 191 FERC ¶ 61,131 (2025)  (Comm’r Rosner, concurring 
at P 2) (“MISO is challenged by persistent interconnection backlogs, permitting delays, and supply chain constraints.  
While some of these factors are within MISO’s control, others are not.  But they combine to limit MISO’s ability to 
quickly and efficiently connect new resources to the grid in time to meet its needs.”). 
43 See, e.g., Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 192 FERC ¶ 61,062 (2025); Cal. Indep. Sys. Operator Corp., 188 FERC ¶ 
61,225 (2024), order on reh’g, 193 FERC ¶ 61,117 (2025); Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 192 FERC ¶ 
61,064 (2025). 
44 Innovations and Efficiencies in Generator Interconnection, Docket No. AD24-9-000, Post-Workshop 
Comments of National Grid (Nov. 14, 2024). 
45 Id.  See also Berkely Lab, Energy Markets & Planning, Grid connection backlog grows by 30% in 2023, 
dominated by requests for solar, wind, and energy storage (April 10, 2024) (“The new rules from FERC will be a step 
in the right direction when implemented, but it is increasingly clear that additional solutions to interconnection 
problems are essential to maintain grid system reliability amidst rising electricity demand and utility- and state-level 
clean energy goals.”).  

--- PAGE 11 ---
11 
 
The Commission must avoid repeating the mistakes it made with respect to its generator 
interconnection process in adopting large load interconnection procedures.  There is no reason to 
believe that exclusively relying on study deposits, withdrawal penalties, or other financial 
indications of readiness will be sufficient to deter the submission of requests by speculative or 
immature projects.  Indeed, such measures are likely to be less effective in the large load 
interconnection context given the significant balance sheets backing many large load customers.   
For that reason, Geronimo Power believes that it is critical that any large load 
interconnection process adopted by the Commission incorporate objective and technology neutral 
criteria to ensure that large loads are prioritized based on their maturity and ability to come online 
in the near term.  To identify commercially viable large loads that have a near term pathway to 
operation, the Commission should ensure that any large load process prioritizes large loads that 
(1) demonstrate that they are backed by capacity sufficient to meet their power supply needs, (2) 
are the size that aligns with the types of large loads that are driving the significant load growth, 
and (3) have obtained applicably zoned site control and applied for certain material permits.     
1. 
Any Process Should Prioritize Large Loads Supported By Capacity 
 
It is well documented that one of the most, if not the most, significant obstacles to data 
center development in the U.S. is securing the necessary power.46  A large load interconnection 
process that provides access to and assigns equal priority to all large loads without regard to 
 
46 Ian Goldsmith and Zach Byrum, Powering the US Data Center Boom: Why Forecasting Can Be So Tricky, 
World Resources Institute (Sept. 17, 2025), https://www.wri.org/insights/us-data-centers-electricity-demand (“Power 
availability has already emerged as a limiting factor for many data center developers, with one analysis finding that 
power constraints were extending data center construction timelines by 24 to 72 months.”); Cushman & Wakefield, 
Americas Data Center Update, https://www.cushmanwakefield.com/en/insights/americas-data-center-update (last 
visited Nov. 15, 2025) (“Power constraints remain a critical challenge, with utility availability playing a key role in 
site selection for hyperscalers and large colocation projects.”); Michael Elias, et al., Data Centers Part II: Power 
Constraints – The Path Forward, TD Securities (Jun. 20, 2024), https://www.tdsecurities.com/ca/en/data-centers-2-
power-constraints (explaining that “lead time to procure utility power for new hyperscale data centers across 22 U.S. 
markets ranges from two and a half to seven years.”).  

--- PAGE 12 ---
12 
 
whether there is supply available to serve the customer risks repeating the mistakes of the generator 
interconnection process by incentivizing data center developers and other large loads to submit a 
multitude of large load interconnection requests without having a viable pathway to achieving 
operation.  Indeed, there is already evidence that the load interconnection queues of utilities are 
swelling with speculative load interconnection requests that lack a pathway to power resulting in 
study delays for more viable large load projects.47  
The Commission can avoid repeating the mistakes that led to unmanageable generator 
interconnection queues by requiring that large loads demonstrate that their load is supported by a 
binding commitment of capacity sufficient to serve a significant proportion of their needs given 
the specified operational characteristics of the load.  Geronimo Power encourages the Commission 
to define these criteria in a manner that provides large load with flexibility to enter into a wide 
array of power supply and/or load reduction arrangements to meet their demand.  The Commission 
should, for instance, allow a load to demonstrate it has entered into a binding commitment for 
capacity sufficient to meet its needs through an arrangement with a co-located generation resource 
that functions as a primary power supply (i.e., is able to provide power on a consistent basis rather 
than as backup supply), construction of its own primary power supply, a power purchase 
agreement or other supply arrangement with a grid-connected resource or utility, a binding 
commitment to curtail during prescribed conditions (e.g., peak), or some combination of these 
options.   
 
47 Brian Martucci, A fraction of proposed data centers will get built. Utilities are wising up., UtilityDive 
(May 15, 2025), https://www.utilitydive.com/news/a-fraction-of-proposed-data-centers-will-get-built-utilities-are-
wising-up/748214/ (“‘Conservatively, you’re seeing five to 10 times more interconnection requests than data centers 
actually being built.’”); Ian Goldsmith and Zach Byrum, Powering the US Data Center Boom: Why Forecasting Can 
Be So Tricky, World Resources Institute (Sept. 17, 2025), https://www.wri.org/insights/us-data-centers-electricity-
demand (“Some experts believe that because of the rapidly growing market, utilities are being flooded with 
‘speculative’ interconnection requests from data center developers.”). 

--- PAGE 13 ---
13 
 
The requirement that large load be backed by capacity could be applied as “gating” criteria 
that load loads (and associated generation) are required to meet to enter the large load 
interconnection process.  Alternatively, this requirement could be used to determine the relative 
priority of requests within the study process (e.g., which projects should be fast tracked through 
the process). 
Imposing a requirement that large loads demonstrate they are supported by capacity 
sufficient to address their needs to enter the queue or to increase their queue priority will ensure 
that transmission providers are devoting their limited resources to studying commercially viable 
large loads with a near term pathway to power.  Large loads that have not secured capacity could 
wait until they have such supply before entering the queue or before becoming eligible to be fast-
tracked through the queue.  
Certain parties may argue that conditioning participation in the large load process on a 
demonstration that the load has secured capacity to meet its needs encroaches on state jurisdiction.  
But requiring that load is backed by capacity is a commonsense measure to evaluate the 
commercial viability of large loads and prevent large load interconnection queues from being 
overwhelmed by speculative requests.  States will continue to have the ultimate authority over 
where to site generation and what utilities have the right to provide retail service to large load 
customers.  States may even be incentivized to align their regulatory paradigms to accommodate 
different power supply options for these large loads to attract investment from data centers and 
industrial manufacturing. 
The Commission has found that the functional equivalent of this requirement—a power 
purchase agreement (“PPA”)—is a just and reasonable measure to evaluate the commercial 

--- PAGE 14 ---
14 
 
viability of generation resources in the context of the generator interconnection queue.48  Just as 
an appropriately structured PPA requirement can help identify those generators most likely to 
move forward to commercial operation, a requirement that large loads be backed by capacity to 
serve at least a significant proportion of their needs will help identify those large loads that should 
be advanced through the interconnection process and have a realistic chance of achieving operation 
in the near-term.  This requirement also will assist transmission providers and grid planners with 
delineating real load growth from the phantom load growth that is currently driving wildly 
divergent estimates regarding the future needs of the grid and, in turn, allow them to develop 
infrastructure plans that are appropriately sized for the grid of the future.49  
Ultimately, such a requirement will help mitigate the risk that captive ratepayers will be 
required to shoulder the costs associated with potentially speculative grid infrastructure 
development.  Utilities are currently struggling with how to mitigate the risk that the costs 
associated with the infrastructure they are investing in to serve large loads will be passed on to 
their existing ratepayers if the large load does not in fact materialize.  While there are certainly 
strategies utilities can adopt to mitigate such risk, the risk cannot be eliminated.  But if large loads 
are required to demonstrate a binding commitment of capacity in connection with the large load 
interconnection queue, the risk that utilities will build out infrastructure for loads that never 
materialize will be materially reduced.    
 
48 See, e.g., Cal. Indep. Sys. Operator Corp., 124 FERC ¶ 61,031, at PP 50-51 (2008) (“PPA criterion 
demonstrates a proposed project has reached a significant developmental milestone and the criterion is a reasonable 
means to identify those projects that are likely to be among the projects first-ready to come on line.”). 
49 See Chairman Rosner’s Letter to the RTOs/ISOs on Large Load Forecasting (Sept. 18, 2025), 
https://www.ferc.gov/news-events/news/chairman-rosners-letter-rtosisos-large-load-forecasting (“Given the size and 
volume of new large load interconnection requests, I’m optimistic that utilities have an opportunity to apply similar 
criteria to those currently used to assess the commercial readiness of large projects in the generator interconnection 
queue.  These objective criteria include observable milestones such as contracts, financial security deposits, and 
physical site control.”).  

--- PAGE 15 ---
15 
 
2. 
The Large Load Interconnection Process Should Be Limited To Large 
Loads That Demand Service On A Timeline The Current 
Interconnection Paradigm Is Failing To Achieve 
 
The ANOPR preliminarily defined large loads as loads greater than 20 MWs,50 but sought 
comment on “alternative thresholds, including whether such a threshold is necessary at all.”51  
Geronimo Power recommends the Commission apply a threshold that is set at a reasonable level 
that aligns with the size of the large loads that are driving this unprecedented load growth (e.g., 
100 MW and above).  Limiting the large load interconnection process to large loads that are the 
ones primarily driving the unprecedented demand for power and that have been unable to timely 
obtain service under the traditional interconnection paradigm will ensure that the large load 
interconnection process is not overwhelmed by relatively small loads or the aggregation of small 
loads that do not have the demands of large hyperscale data centers and advanced industrial 
manufacturing facilities.  While relatively small loads may have seen their interconnection 
timelines and path to power swell in recent years along with all other loads, providing significant 
large loads with an alternative interconnection pathway through the Commission’s large load 
interconnection process will allow utilities to return to focusing on interconnecting and providing 
service to these relatively smaller loads through their traditional processes.  
3. 
Large Loads Should Have Appropriately Zoned Site Control And 
Applied For Relevant Permits  
 
Obtaining the right to develop a data center or other large load project on a particular parcel 
of land is a key step in the development of these projects.  Without such land there is no project.  
It is thus only logical for the Commission to require large loads to demonstrate that they have 
obtained site control—just as generation developers now, in the post-Order No. 2023 world, must 
 
50 ANOPR at P 1, n.1. 
51 Id. at P 19. 

--- PAGE 16 ---
16 
 
similarly demonstrate site control for most of their generating facility52—before they are eligible 
to proceed through the large load interconnection process.  Although Geronimo Power is not 
proposing an exhaustive list of site control and permitting requirements in these comments, it 
offers the following as examples of what could be reasonable requirements for meaningfully 
assessing project viability. 
As part of imposing site control requirements on large load customers to access the large 
load interconnection queue, the Commission should require a large load to demonstrate that the 
site it controls is properly zoned for the project being submitted to the large load interconnection 
queue.  Local opposition to data center and other large load projects has prevented many of these 
projects from moving forward in recent years.  While local opposition can take numerous forms, 
refusing to rezone a property to support the applicable large load development or changing zoning 
regulations to prohibit the applicable large load development is one of the most frequent 
roadblocks that local opponents of these projects resort to in order to stall or prevent such projects 
from moving forward.53  As a result, a large load customer’s ability to demonstrate that the property 
upon which they intend to develop their project is appropriately zoned for such development will 
provide a key indicator that the large load is commercially viable and will be unlikely to be 
forestalled by local opposition.   
 
52 Order No. 2023 at P 596.  
53 See, e.g., Alexandra Hardle, Developers of massive proposed data hub walk away from deal in West Valley, 
Arizona Republic (May 2, 2024), https://www.azcentral.com/story/news/local/southwest-valley/2024/05/02/tract-
withdraws-its-application-for-rezoning-for-14b-data-hub/73454246007/ (“A proposed $14 billion data hub in the 
West Valley has withdrawn its application for rezoning with Maricopa County.  The nearly 1,000-acre data hub would 
have been practically surrounded by planned residential land in Goodyear and Buckeye, prompting representatives 
from the cities to oppose the project.”); Eli Tan, A Rural Missouri Town Fights Big Tech, and Itself, The New York 
Times (Oct. 29, 2024), https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/29/technology/data-center-peculiar-missouri.html (“Then 
came the aldermen’s vote — by unanimous decision, the data center zoning was rejected.  It is unclear where Diode 
will take its project.”). 

--- PAGE 17 ---
17 
 
In addition, the Commission should require large loads to demonstrate that they have 
applied for material permits necessary for the construction of the large load’s facility.  This could 
include, for instance, a requirement that a large load demonstrate that it has submitted its site plan 
and building permits for a project to the relevant local authority.  It would also be reasonable to 
require data center developers or large manufacturing facilities that will have on site backup diesel 
generation to demonstrate that they have applied for relevant air permits from local, state, and 
federal agencies.  These are illustrative examples of possible permitting requirements and are by 
no means exhaustive.  The point is that the Commission should impose criteria that ensure that a 
large load customer has taken concrete steps to advance its project by applying for permits that are 
critical to the viability of the project.  These permitting requirements will help ensure that the large 
load projects that utilize the large load interconnection process are commercially viable.   
C. 
Large Loads Should Pay For Service Based On Their Impact On The Grid 
 
The ANOPR provides a helpful starting point for the Commission to consider how large 
loads should be evaluated for service and assessed charges for transmission service.  In particular, 
the ANOPR contemplates that any studies of, and charges imposed on, large loads should be based 
on the net impact of the large load (and associated generation) on the transmission system.  This 
is reflected in principle three, which recognizes that the coordinated evaluation of large loads and 
associated generating facilities has the potential to support the “efficient siting of loads and 
generating facilities and . . . minimize the need for costly network upgrades.”54  Studying large 
loads and generation resources together would, as the ANOPR recognizes,55 provide transmission 
providers with a clearer picture of a hybrid facility’s actual impact on the grid and reduce the need 
 
54 ANOPR at P 20 (“Third, to the extent practicable, load and hybrid facilities should be studied together 
with generating facilities.”).  
55 Id. 

--- PAGE 18 ---
18 
 
for unnecessary network upgrades that can prevent projects from achieving commercial operation 
on a reasonable time frame.   
Principle eleven of the ANOPR also reflects this approach.  Principle eleven states that 
“utilities serving large loads, including those at hybrid facilities, should be responsible for 
transmission service based on their withdrawal rights, as that value amount reflects the quantity of 
capacity and energy that is being transmitted across the transmission system to the load.”56  
Geronimo Power fully agrees with this principle because assessing large loads transmission service 
charges based upon their actual withdrawal rights appropriately limits the cost responsibility of 
such customers to the costs necessary to provide them with the service requested.    
Certain commenters may argue that large loads should be assessed transmission service 
charges irrespective of any co-located generation resources.  But a final rule that adopts such 
arguments would be inconsistent with the FPA’s cost causation principle.  The cost causation 
principle requires that “all approved rates reflect to some degree the costs actually caused by the 
customer who must pay them” and prohibits the Commission from approving a rate scheme that 
will result in one group of customers being required to subsidize the provision of service to a 
different group of customers.57  No amount of “emphasizing other competing interests permits 
FERC to sacrifice the foundational principle of cost-causation by refusing to allocate costs ‘to 
those who cause the costs to be incurred and who reap the resulting benefits.’”58   
There is no reasonable basis to conclude that a large load that commits to only withdraw a 
set amount of energy from the grid and implements system protection or other devices—as the 
 
56 Id. at P 11.  
57 Constellation Mystic Power, LLC v. FERC, 45 F.4th 1028, 1050 (D.C. Cir. 2022) (quoting Black Oak 
Energy, LLC v. FERC, 725 F.3d 230 (D.C. Cir. 2013)); City of Lincoln v. FERC, 89 F.4th 926, 930 (D.C. Cir. 2024). 
58 El Paso Elec. Co. v. FERC, 76 F.4th 352, 363 (5th Cir. 2023) (quoting Nat’l Ass’n of Reg. Util. Comm’rs 
v. FERC, 475 F.3d 1277, 1285 (D.C. Cir. 2007)).  

--- PAGE 19 ---
19 
 
ANOPR contemplates59—to ensure that it does not withdraw more energy than its agreed upon 
amount causes costs associated with its entire load.  In the event that such load’s co-located 
resource fails to perform, the load will not be permitted to take service beyond its already agreed 
upon amount from the grid.  Assessing large loads transmission service charges for a service that 
they have agreed to forgo is akin to a fast food chain charging a customer for fries and a drink 
when it has only ordered a burger—a proposition that, if the fast food industry was governed by 
the FPA, would be unjust, unreasonable, and fundamentally inconsistent with the cost causation 
principle.   
Assessing large loads based on their net impact is not only required by the cost causation 
principle, it will also accelerate the ability of large loads to obtain power on a timely basis.  Such 
an approach would help ensure that the ability of large loads to achieve operation is not delayed 
by the construction of transmission system upgrades that ultimately are unnecessary to 
accommodate their project’s impact on the grid.  Moreover, assessing large load based on their net 
impact will create an incentive for large loads to pursue co-location or other arrangements that 
minimize their reliance on the grid and protect captive customers from the costs of extensive and 
potentially unnecessary grid infrastructure costs.   
While Geronimo Power appreciates the ANOPR’s general approach to assigning costs to 
large loads in a manner consistent with the cost causation principle, it is concerned that the 
ANOPR’s approach to assessing costs for ancillary services could pose an impediment to the 
development of large loads and their related infrastructure and be inconsistent with the cost 
causation principle.  Specifically, principle twelve of the ANOPR states that “utilities serving large 
loads, including those at hybrid facilities, should be responsible for ancillary services based on 
 
59 ANOPR at P 23 (“Sixth, any hybrid interconnection shall be required to install the system protection 
facilities necessary to prevent unauthorized injections or withdrawals that exceed the respective rights.”).  

--- PAGE 20 ---
20 
 
peak demand, without consideration of any co-located generation.”60  It is not clear that the 
ANOPR contemplates the market participant serving a large load being assessed ancillary service 
charges regardless of its co-located generation since the ANOPR also indicates that “[a]ny co-
located generating facilities will similarly be fully compensated for the provision of ancillary 
services,” which at least suggests that ancillary service charges would ultimately be netted out for 
loads co-located with generation.61  However, to the extent the ANOPR is suggesting that ancillary 
service charges should be assessed based on a large load’s total demand and without taking into 
account self-imposed limitations on such load or netting out co-located generation, the 
Commission should take a different approach that is consistent with the cost causation principle.  
Assessing large loads costs for ancillary services based on their gross demand is 
inconsistent with the FPA’s cost causation principle because it risks imposing ancillary service 
charges on large loads despite these customers not needing such services—or at least not needing 
such services at the level for which they are being charged.  A large load that is, for instance, co-
located with a firm power supply option and agrees to curtail when this generation is not available 
may have little or no need for imbalance service.  Additionally, it is not clear what assessing 
charges for imbalance service based on gross demand would mean in practice, as charges for 
imbalance service generally are limited to the deviation between a customer’s schedules and actual 
load or generation.  To the extent that principle twelve is intended to suggest that all ancillary 
services should be billed based on the gross load of a large load customer, the ANOPR paints with 
too broad of a brush.  
 
60 Id. at P 29. 
61 Id.  

--- PAGE 21 ---
21 
 
A better approach for the Commission to take is to treat ancillary service costs in the same 
manner as it has proposed to treat transmission service charges: large loads pay for ancillary 
services based on their actual use of, and reliance on, the service at issue.  In practice, this will 
require a more nuanced assessment of the extent to which various ancillary services are necessary 
to serve large loads.  While it may be appropriate to assess charges to large loads that are not co-
located with generation in a manner that is comparable to the way that such charges are imposed 
on network customers, large loads that are co-located with generation will require a more nuanced 
assessment to come up with a billing determinant that accurately reflects the extent to which a 
market participant serving a large load relies on a given ancillary service.   
II. 
CONCLUSION 
Geronimo Power respectfully requests that the Commission issue a notice of proposed 
rulemaking and final rule consistent with this Comment.  
Respectfully submitted, 
 
/s/ Stephen J. Hug 
Matthew Morais 
Senior Director, Policy 
Kurt Rempe 
Assistant General Counsel 
GERONIMO POWER, LLC 
8400 Normandale Lake Blvd., Ste. 1200 
Bloomington, MN 55437 
mmorais@geronimopower.com  
krempe@geronimopowre.com  
  
Stephen J. Hug 
Ben N. Reiter 
AKIN GUMP STRAUSS HAUER & FELD LLP 
2001 K Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C.  20006 
Tel: (202) 887-4084 
shug@akingump.com 
breiter@akingump.com   
On behalf of Geronimo Power 
Dated: November 21, 2025 
 

--- PAGE 22 ---
 
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
 
I hereby certify that I have caused the foregoing document to be served upon the individuals 
designated on the Commission’s official service list for this proceeding. 
Dated at Washington, D.C., this 21st day of November, 2025. 
 
 
/s/ Stephen Hug 
 
Stephen J. Hug 
AKIN GUMP STRAUSS HAUER & FELD LLP 
2001 K Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C.  20006 
(202) 887-4084 
 
