--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
 
 
 
ncsl.org | @NCSLorg 
Denver 7700 East First Place, Denver CO 80230 | Washington D.C. 444 North Capitol Street, N.W. Suite 515, Washington, D.C. 20001 
Marcus C. Evans Jr. 
Lonnie Edgar 
Tim Storey
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
888 1st Street NE 
Washington, D.C. 20426 
 
November 21, 2025 
 
RE: Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
Dear Chairman Swett, Commissioner Rosner, Commissioner See, Commissioner Chang 
and Commissioner LaCerte, 
 
The National Conference of State Legislatures, the bipartisan organization representing the legislatures of our 
nation's states, territories, commonwealths and Washington, D.C., thanks you for the opportunity to comment on 
the Department of Energy’s Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking “Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System.” 
 
NCSL appreciates Secretary Wright’s attention to the pressing matter of the impacts of large loads on the energy 
grid and the associated grid connection challenges. The increasing digitization of everyday life and technological 
innovations such as artificial intelligence, cloud computing and more are causing large increases in the demand 
for power beyond what anyone could have anticipated. Large-scale users like those referenced in the proposed 
rule are critical for the modern economy and have the potential to significantly contribute to the economic 
development of states and local communities. When paired with smart planning and infrastructure investment, 
data centers and other large load facilities can help support grid modernization and innovation, accelerate 
integration of any and all energy generation sources and provide backup generation capacity during periods of 
peak load demand or emergencies. 
 
However, according to the Department of Energy and the Electric Power Research Institute, total energy demand 
in the U.S. is expected to potentially increase 15% to 20% in the coming years and data centers’ usage share of all 
electricity in the nation could more than double to almost 10% by 2030. This dramatic increase puts greater 
pressure on an overburdened and aging power grid and could significantly hamper reliability, raise costs for 
individual ratepayers, contribute to energy affordability challenges and cause serious cost-sharing concerns 
among residential users and small businesses. Large load projects also come with siting and permitting issues, 
especially around grid connection and facility accessibility in areas that lack existing power or service 
infrastructure to support large facilities. Furthermore, data centers and other large load projects could have 
negative environmental impacts and community opposition due to their vast water consumption, greenhouse gas 
and heat emissions, noise pollution, and electronic waste. While many data centers are already taking steps to 
increase sustainability and mitigate impacts, these concerns remain. 
 
This new proposed rule would bring under federal jurisdiction an issue that is currently handled by the states and 
has been for decades. While NCSL understands the need for enhanced oversight over how large loads obtain 
power any such regulatory decisions by FERC should only come after close, careful and deliberate consultation 
with states early and often throughout the process of rule development to ensure individual and small rate payers 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
 
 
 
 
are protected. Such actions should also not remove decision-making powers that have historically been left to the 
states. 
 
In fact, the wording of the current ANOPR raises several questions: 
 
1. If jurisdiction for interconnection of large loads is claimed by the FERC, what is the process for determining 
how those large loads will impact an already strained power supply, and who bears responsibility for 
managing and mitigating the ensuing reliability concerns?  Will NERC standards be developed to manage 
reliability issues? If so, would it need a change in statute to expand EPA OF 2005 Section 215 definition of 
what is covered in the standards, or would current language be sufficient? 
2. How will FERC determine who is responsible for bearing the costs of increased power demand? FERC must 
work with states to create cost allocation methods that help ensure large-scale energy users are paying 
their fair share of costs using the "cost causation" and "beneficiary pays" principles while recognizing 
current jurisdiction on this issue. 
3. If FERC claims the jurisdiction referenced in the ANOPR, how will the commission address inconsistencies 
in cost allocations and, again, will FERC ensure that the large energy users pay sufficiently with the cost 
causation and beneficiary pays principles? 
4. Currently, managing the connection of large hybrid loads, such as those covered by this ANOPR, is left up 
to the states. If FERC claims jurisdiction over these connections, how will FERC ensure generation 
facilities have adequate interconnection points for these new loads?  
5. In the event available generation capacity is insufficient to meet system demand because of the new load, 
which entity holds operational authority for determining customer prioritization during system restoration 
efforts? Does responsibility change if there are power interruptions that affect multiple states versus 
interruptions confined to one state?  
 
NCSL recently passed a policy resolution focused on data centers and their impacts on power generation and grid 
resiliency. In addition to the above request for increased oversight of large load connections in close and 
consistent consultation withs states, we also request that the FERC includes in the final rule the following 
suggestions: 
 
1. Include state policy makers in all stakeholder discussions regarding data center placement and energy 
usage and refrain from pre-empting states on siting, permitting, taxation and other regulatory issues 
relating to the construction and operation of data centers. 
2. Recognize opportunities for data centers to contribute to grid stability and resiliency while mitigating the 
impact of data centers on rate payers and communities, as well as protect local consumers' need for 
power when disruptions limit the amount of available power. 
3. Develop incentives and/or implement requirements for data centers regarding onsite generation of power, 
integration of energy-storage and demand-management systems at new data center projects. 
4. Require utility operators to file documentation related to data centers with appropriate state and federal 
regulatory agencies that detail terms and conditions of service and associated prices to facilitate 
transparency and protect rate payers. 
5. In cooperation with states and localities, encourage regional planning for power generation, including 
building national infrastructure in a way that makes sense for states and localities, nuclear power 
generation and valuing the grid as a national asset. This approach could disincentivize states from 
engaging in undue and damaging competition. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
 
 
 
 
6. In consultation with states and their national associations, establish guidance and oversight of 
sustainability practices, including reducing emissions, mitigating onsite water consumption, reducing 
noise pollution and other community concerns. 
7. Provide funding and resources to states to help data centers optimize operations through power 
management, workload optimization and other innovations. 
8. Require data centers to regularly report to the appropriate local, state and federal agencies on their 
electricity and water usage to ensure transparency and facilitate equity in costs. 
9. Provide funding and resources to Department of Energy labs and other relevant federal agencies to 
increase their capacity to work with states and provide technical assistance to help navigate future energy 
needs and supplies. 
10. Promote best-practice cybersecurity, physical security and supply-chain security measures to protect U.S. 
data center operations from foreign adversary access or compromise. 
 
To solve these pressing issues and drive technological innovation and economic growth, cooperation and 
collaboration between data centers, utilities, operators, private industry and governments at the state, local and 
federal levels is crucial. We stand ready to work with the federal government and other public and private 
stakeholders to invest in infrastructure, improve energy management, and ensure a prosperous future for all 
Americans. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Senator Katie Fry Hester 
Co-Chair 
NCSL Natural Resources, Energy and Environment 
Committee 
 
 
Senator Brian Feldman 
Co-Chair 
NCSL Energy Supply Task Force 
 
 
Senator Larry Luick 
Co-Chair 
NCSL Natural Resources, Energy and Environment 
Committee 
 
 
Senator Sue Rezin 
Co-Chair 
NCSL Energy Supply Task Force
 
