--- PAGE 1 ---
- 1 - 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate ) 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Transmission System 
 
 
 
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
) 
 
COMMENTS OF ITC 
 
 
Pursuant to the Notice Inviting Comments issued by the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission (“FERC” or “Commission”) on October 27, 2025,1 ITC Holdings Corp. (“ITC”) 
submits the following comments.  These comments address the Advanced Notice of Proposed 
Rulemaking (“ANOPR”), which was initiated following the Secretary of Energy’s (“Secretary”) 
directive, pursuant to section 403 of the Department of Energy Organization Act,2 requiring the 
Commission to initiate rulemaking procedures. ITC respectfully requests the Commission’s 
consideration of these comments. 
ITC is the parent company of International Transmission Company d/b/a 
ITCTransmission, Michigan Electric Transmission Company, LLC, ITC Midwest LLC and ITC 
Great Plains, LLC (the “ITC Companies”), each of which is an independent, stand-alone 
transmission company engaged exclusively in the development, ownership and operation of 
facilities for the transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce.  ITC invests exclusively 
in the electric power transmission grid to improve electric reliability, facilitate access to low-cost 
generation, improve access to power markets, and reduce the overall cost of delivered electric 
power.  As an independent transmission developer, ITC believes it brings a unique point of view 
 
1 Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Notice Inviting Comments, 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 27, 2025). 
2 42 U.S.C. § 7173. 

--- PAGE 2 ---
- 2 - 
 
that is to a large extent uncomplicated by the intra-company concerns that vertically integrated 
utilities may face in this proceeding.  
ITC generally supports Secretary of Energy Wright’s effort to expedite and streamline the 
interconnection of large loads to the transmission system.  Large loads such as data centers, 
manufacturing hubs, and electrification projects require robust transmission infrastructure to 
ensure reliability and economic growth.  ITC is committed to working with FERC and 
stakeholders to achieve a regulatory framework that is efficient, transparent, and equitable for the 
interconnection of large loads.  As reforms are evaluated, FERC should strive to avoid any 
potential unintended consequences and align rules in a way that streamlines interconnection.  
Further, broadly speaking, the Commission should commit to policies – like Order 19203 
– that facilitate building a robust, future-ready transmission network.  When a strong regional 
network exists, large loads can interconnect efficiently without costly delays.  For example, 
Southwest Power Pool (“SPP”) should be commended for its regional planning efforts, including 
their Board of Directors’ approval of a $8.6 billion regional transmission portfolio via its 2025 
Integrated Transmission Plan (“ITP”) on the heels of a nearly $8 billion 2024 ITP.4  These 
investments will offer a much stronger foundation for large loads seeking to interconnect to the 
grid.  MISO provides another industry-leading example of this principle in practice.  It has taken 
a leadership role in facilitating the transmission infrastructure needed to reliably support the 
 
3 Building for the Future Through Electric Regional Transmission Planning and Cost Allocation, 
Order No. 1920, 187 FERC ¶ 61,068 at P 837 (2024), set aside in part, 189 FERC P 61,126 (2024), 
clarified on denial of reh'g, 191 FERC P 61,026 (2025). 
4 See SPP board advances regional transmission plan to keep pace with accelerating growth and 
ensure grid reliability, Nov. 5, 2025, available at https://spp.org/news-list/spp-board-advances-regional-
transmission-plan-to-keep-pace-with-accelerating-growth-and-ensure-grid-reliability/; see also SPP board 
approves $7.7 billion plan for transmission builds, upgrades, Oct. 29, 2024, available at 
https://www.spp.org/news-list/spp-board-approves-77-billion-planfor-transmission-builds-upgrades/. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
- 3 - 
 
rapid growth of AI-driven data centers and other high-load facilities, ensuring the U.S. can 
compete globally.5  In December 2024, MISO’s Board of Directors approved Tranche 2.1, a $22 
billion portfolio that will build a high-voltage transmission backbone.  In addition to ensuring 
core reliability needs in the region, Tranche 2.1 will support load growth from data centers, AI, 
cryptocurrency, and reindustrialization, and enable the Midwest to reliably support 587 TWh in 
increased demand now anticipated by 2044.6   
II. 
COMMENTS ON SPECIFIC ASPECTS OF THE ANOPR 
a. The Commission Should Increase the Proposed Load Size Threshold 
Significantly to Align Resources with Projects That Have Material 
Transmission System Impacts 
 
ITC recommends the Commission consider raising the threshold for what constitutes a 
large load.  In ITC’s experience, the proposed threshold of 20 MW may capture a range of projects 
that are unlikely to have significant impacts on the broader grid, and which may in fact be slowed 
by a process intended for the unprecedently large loads that are now being proposed for immediate 
construction.  While a specific threshold will undoubtably benefit from robust comments from 
impacted entities and further examination of the specific proposal the Commission puts forward, 
ITC offers that a threshold of 50 to 100 MW may be more appropriate and administratively 
manageable.  This would also reflect the real operational differences between even quite large 
conventional retail and industrial load versus the recent proliferation of data center, crypto mining, 
 
5 See MISO President and CEO John Bear letter to FERC Chairman David Rosner, Docket No. 
EL25-109-000 (filed Oct. 8, 2025) (noting “MISO’s Long-Range Transmission Planning (LRTP) process 
provides the transmission backbone that will be even more essential given the rising load forecasts. Large 
loads can site where the backbone transmission will be built and these large loads will be able to rely on 
the LRTP transmission as they build their upgrades through the MTEP or EPR processes”). 
6 See MISO, MISO 2024 Load Forecast and Process Enhancements Workshop 16 (Dec. 2024), 
available at https://cdn.misoenergy.org/20241218%20Medium%20and%20Long%20Term%20Forecast 
%20Workshop%20Presentation667265.pdf. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
- 4 - 
 
or other extremely large loads which can shift tens or hundreds of megawatts in seconds.  A higher 
demand threshold would align resources with projects that have material system impact and avoid 
unintended backlogs and delays.   
b. FERC Should Ensure that Appropriate Cost Allocation Mechanisms are in 
Place to Accommodate Large Loads, While Also Maintaining Utilities’ 
Fundamental Right to Make Investments and Earn on the Same 
 
ITC recognizes cost allocation will be one of the most difficult issues to resolve in this 
proceeding, as is often the case, particularly as affordability concerns mount.  Transmission 
system upgrades driven by large load additions can enhance system reliability, reduce 
congestion, and enable future generator and load integration.  Of course, these benefits accrue 
system-wide, making it reasonable for utilities to recover costs through transmission rates rather 
than imposing disproportionate burdens on individual projects.   Accordingly, the Commission 
and stakeholders should recognize the generational societal and economic opportunities large 
loads provide, which can put downward pressure on overall transmission rates. 
However, if the Commission pursues any untested cost allocation approaches to 
accommodate the aggressive timing and size requirements of large loads, FERC must recognize 
and implement a foundational principle of the regulatory compact: public utilities are entitled to 
recover their costs and earn a reasonable return on prudent investments made to provide FERC 
jurisdictional service.  Regardless of the cost allocation mechanism, utilities will be responsible 
for the safe and reliable operation of their facilities.  Whether a particular transmission facility is 
paid for by 1, 100, or 100,000 customers, the utility’s system ownership risks remain.  Utility 
shareholders should not be forced to subsidize network upgrades or any other transmission 
system investment without a return on those investments.  Utilities must be able to attract capital 
to facilitate these large load interconnections, and that requires a fair return on that capital.   

--- PAGE 5 ---
- 5 - 
 
c. FERC Should Not Afford an “Option-to-Build” to Large Load Customers 
 
FERC should not afford the option to construct network upgrades to large load 
customers.  Large loads also often involve critical infrastructure with heightened reliability and 
safety implications.  Further, large loads typically have no ongoing operations and maintenance 
responsibility, reducing incentives for quality and reliability.  Introducing third-party 
construction in these contexts increases coordination complexity and oversight burdens for 
transmission owners and providers without delivering meaningful efficiency gains.  Retaining 
the option to build for large loads could create fragmented construction practices and 
inconsistent adherence to technical standards.  Transmission owners bear ultimate responsibility 
for system integrity, yet they would be required to monitor and validate facilities built by entities 
with limited experience and limited enduring stake in system performance except as to their own 
particular point of interconnection.  This misalignment of incentives poses unacceptable 
reliability risks.  Ultimately, eliminating the option simplifies coordination, ensures consistent 
standards, and protects system integrity. 
IV. 
CONCLUSION  
ITC looks forward to working with the Commission to achieve the Administration’s goal 
of rapidly integrating large load resources.  As this effort gets underway, ITC will continue to 
work diligently to prepare its grid for the demands of the future.  This includes work aimed at 
immediate interconnection of new large loads on an expedited basis, as well as more forward-
looking efforts to strengthen the grid more broadly, e.g., through MISO Tranche 1 and 2.1 and 
SPP ITP projects.   
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/ Kyle Hall Henne 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kyle Hall Henne 

--- PAGE 6 ---
- 6 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Counsel-Regulatory & Legislative 
ITC Holdings Corp. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
601 13th Street NW 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Suite 910S 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Washington, D.C. 20006 
Ph: (202)-602-2870 
khenne@itctransco.com 
 
November 21, 2025 
 
