--- PAGE 1 ---
1 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
)  
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Interstate Transmission System 
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COMMENTS OF THE GEORGIA  
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In response to the Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) on “Ensuring the 
Timely and Orderly Interconnection of Large Loads” for the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission (the “Commission” or “FERC”), the Georgia Public Service Commission (“GPSC”) 
hereby submits comments highlighting its ongoing constructive regulation of large loads that 
promotes strategic economic development and maintains the reliability and affordability of electric 
service for its constituents.  The GPSC is made up of five elected Commissioners, supported by 
approximately 77 staff and regulates electric, natural gas, and telecommunication companies in 
the state of Georgia. More specifically, the GPSC regulates Georgia’s only vertically integrated 
investor-owned electric service provider, Georgia Power Company (“Georgia Power”). In that 
capacity, the Georgia Commission affects the household budgets of more than 2.7 million GPC 
customers.  Georgia Power’s estimate for new generation demand of 9,900 MW, primarily from 
large loads, is staggering, but the GPSC has the authority and flexibility to facilitate this growth in 
a manner that will meet the electricity needs of new customers while protecting existing customers 
from upward pressure on utility rates. 
The GPSC has acted in the past year to further solidify its regulatory mandate in response 
to the timely and orderly interconnection of large loads.  In April 2025 the Commission approved 

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
changes to its rules and regulations requiring Georgia Power to ensure that new customers over 
100 MW pay their cost of service through minimum billing requirements, long term contracts with 
sizable fees in the case of early termination, and other terms and conditions for which the GPSC 
can quickly and efficiently review each contract on a non-discriminatory basis.  The Order is 
included as Attachment A.  The GPSC is also currently conducting an all-source capacity 
certification proceeding to consider meeting the future needs of Georgia Power customers through 
cost-effective thermal, renewable, and battery storage technologies.  As part of this proceeding, 
the GPSC is further analyzing load forecasting it considered earlier this year in the 2025 Integrated 
Resource Plan (IRP).  The Procedural and Scheduling Order for the all-source capacity 
certification proceeding is included as Attachment B. 
 
The GPSC affirms that it is best positioned to ensure the timely and orderly interconnection 
of large loads with its current policy and regulatory tools.  The GPSC has acted swiftly and 
prudently in response to unprecedented new demand forecasts.  In the 2022 IRP the estimated load 
growth for Georgia Power was less than 400 new megawatts of generation over the next seven 
years. An interim IRP filed in 2023 allowed the GPSC to verify and take immediate action to meet 
a 15-fold increase in demand needs, with large loads as the primary driver.  The vertically 
integrated market structure in Georgia allows the GPSC to oversee every facet of this load growth 
and adjust to market conditions as they emerge.    
The GPSC is able to connect with constituents and stakeholders to ensure that timely and 
orderly interconnection of large loads meets local needs.  Georgia is one of the fastest growing 
markets for new data centers, as well as other large scale industrial facilities.  The GPSC is able to 
support this economic development through engagement with businesses looking to locate in 
Georgia to ensure that the size and types of resources, opportunities for load flexibility, and rate 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
designs meet the desired specifications.  As communities become more engaged in attracting 
facilities, the GPSC has a direct responsibility to serve the public interest of Georgians.         
The GPSC understands the national importance of a timely and orderly interconnection of 
large loads.  Through its leadership at the National Association of Regulatory Utility 
Commissioners and participation in proceedings at FERC, GPSC Commissioners have continued 
to stress the economic and national security necessity of American leadership in artificial 
intelligence and other energy-intensive twenty-first technologies essential to innovation.  The 
GPSC understands that states in other market structures may require different interventions from 
FERC.  The GPSC will continue to collaborate towards shared goals without the need for further 
Federal action in Georgia.  The GPSC looks forward to Georgia’s continued leadership with its 
successful strategies to ensure the timely and orderly interconnection of large loads.   
 
Submitted this 19th day of November, 2025. 
 
 
 
GEORGIA PUBLIC SERVICE  
 
COMMISSION 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chris Collado 
 
Attorney 
 
Georgia Public Service Commission 
244 Washington Street, SW 
Atlanta, Georgia 30334-5701 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
ATTACHMENT A 
Docket No. 44280, GPC 2022 Rate Case 
Revision to Rules and Regulations Tariff Compliance Filing 
Page 1 of 5 
  
COMMISSIONERS: 
 
JASON SHAW, Chairman  
TIM G. ECHOLS, Vice-Chairman 
FITZ JOHNSON  
LAUREN “BUBBA” McDONALD                               
TRICIA PRIDEMORE                           
 
 
 
 
REECE McALISTER  
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 
  
SALLIE TANNER 
EXECUTIVE SECRETARY 
Georgia Public Service Commission 
(404) 656-4501   
(800) 282-5813 
244 WASHINGTON STREET, SW 
ATLANTA, GEORGIA 30334-5701 
   FAX:  (404) 656-2341  
www.psc.state.ga.us 
 
 
ORDER ON GEORGIA POWER COMPANY’S REVISION TO RULES AND 
REGULATIONS TARIFF COMPLIANCE FILING 
 
Docket No. 44280  
 
In Re: Georgia Power Company’s 2022 Rate Case  
 
 
 
I. 
BACKGROUND 
 
On December 11, 2024, Georgia Power Company (“Company” or “Georgia Power”) filed 
a request for approval of revisions to the Company’s Rules and Regulations in Docket Number 
44280.  The rule changes apply to new customers with 100 megawatts (“MW”) or more of load 
connecting to Georgia Power’s system, requiring additional terms and conditions for those 
customers in order to allow the Company to appropriately assign costs to the customer.  The 
proposed revisions allow for minimum billing requirements and longer contract term lengths for 
the new customers over 100 MW of load.    
  
On January 28, 2025, the Georgia Public Service Commission (“Commission”) approved 
the Company’s request with the following requirements:  
  
• 
The Company shall exercise the discretion under the Rules and Regulations 
changes in a manner designed to protect existing customers from bearing any of the 
costs of adding these large customers.  
• 
The Company shall provide Staff with the terms and conditions intended to 
implement the revisions to the Company’s rules and regulations, and the criteria for 
applying such terms and conditions, prior to utilizing them for contracting.  
• 
The Company shall file the complete contract and associated exhibits, attachments, 
terms and conditions on all new contracts within 30 days of execution.   
• 
The Company shall make a compliance filing of the relevant tariffs for applicable 
customers to reflect the changes to the rules and regulations.  

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
ATTACHMENT A 
Docket No. 44280, GPC 2022 Rate Case 
Revision to Rules and Regulations Tariff Compliance Filing 
Page 2 of 5 
• 
The Commission shall continue to review the issue and may modify the rules and 
regulations or take other actions necessary to protect the Company’s customers.  Staff 
reserves the right to recommend further amendments to the Company’s rules and 
regulations.   
 
On February 28, 2025, the Company filed revisions to ten existing tariffs with a proposed 
effective date of April 1, 2025, for applicable customers to reflect the changes to the rules and 
regulations in compliance with the Commission’s January 28, 2025, Order (the “Revision 
Approval Order”).  
  
On March 11, 2025, the Company provided Staff with draft terms and conditions intended to 
implement the revisions to the Company’s rules and regulations, and criteria for applying such 
terms and conditions.   
  
On March 19, 2025, the Company filed a revised TOU-SC-15 tariff to incorporate some 
refinements the Company identified during the Commission Staff’s review of the tariffs.  
  
On April 4, 2025, the Company filed a second revision for TOU-SC-15 with additional 
refinements in the Monthly Access Charge Option section of the tariff to clarify minimum bill and 
early termination requirements.  
  
      
II. 
FINDINGS OF FACT  
  
Under the draft terms and conditions, customers would pay the higher of tariffed rates or a 
minimum bill amount each billing period they are a customer. If the customer ended the contract 
early, the customer would be liable for the minimum bill amounts (not tariffed rate amounts) for 
each period for the remaining term of the contract. The tariffed rates would be subject to future 
review and modification by the Commission using normal ratemaking processes.  However, the 
minimum bill amounts would not.  
  
The Company has provided Staff with a framework for determining minimum bills, but not a 
definitive calculation that Staff can replicate.  Under this framework, the minimum bill amounts 
would be set to recover the transmission and generation costs being incurred to serve the new 
large-load customers. Conceptually, this framework appears to be reasonable; however, Staff has 
not yet seen how the Company intends to apply the framework in practice. Due to the uncertainty 
of how the framework will be applied, Staff cannot determine whether the minimum bill 
framework will actually result in amounts that are reasonable and appropriate without reviewing 
the actual amounts negotiated for customers.    
 
Staff recommended that the Commission issue an order approving the revised tariffs with the 
following provisions:  
  
1) Staff will continue to review the tariffed rates and can recommend that the rates be increased 
should Staff deem such recommendation appropriate.   
  

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
ATTACHMENT A 
Docket No. 44280, GPC 2022 Rate Case 
Revision to Rules and Regulations Tariff Compliance Filing 
Page 3 of 5 
2) The Commission retains the ability to modify the tariffed rates as allowed under Georgia law.   
  
3) Staff has reviewed and recommended approval of the large load contracting framework for the 
terms and conditions implementing the revisions to the Company’s Rules and Regulations 
approved by the Commission in the Revision Approval Order. The terms and conditions of each 
large load contract including the minimum bill, termination, and collateral provisions will apply 
this framework. To the extent that the actual language in a contract differs from the language in 
the draft terms and conditions provided to Staff, Staff may object to such language if Staff deems 
that such modification is substantive and does not adequately protect existing customers from 
bearing any of the costs of adding the customer. The terms and conditions shall include language 
that if the tariffed rates are increased then the customer will be responsible to pay the new higher 
rates.   
  
4) Commission Staff has reviewed the large load contracting framework and the minimum bill 
methodology implementing the revisions to the Company’s Rules and Regulations approved by 
the Commission in the Revision Approval Order. Conceptually, this framework appears to be 
reasonable; however, Staff reserves the ability to review how it is applied in practice and Staff may 
object to a minimum bill amount if Staff deems that it is insufficient.   
  
5) As defined in the revisions to the Rules and Regulations (100 MW or greater at one or more 
premises located on one tract or contiguous tracts of land), the Company will file each such 
contract with the Commission at least thirty (30) days prior to execution of the contract. At the 
time of such filing, the Company will provide Commission Staff documentation demonstrating 
that the contract complies with the requirements of the Revision Approval Order. Once filed, 
Commission Staff may raise objections to the contract, and the Company and Commission Staff 
will work together in good faith to resolve any such objections. If Staff does not file an objection 
within thirty (30) days of the filing of the contract, the contract shall be deemed approved.  If Staff 
files an objection, the contract shall be approved if the Commission takes no action within thirty 
(30) days after the Staff’s filing.   After the first twelve (12) executed large load contracts have 
been filed, Staff and the Company shall meet in good faith to discuss whether this process should 
be modified.   
  
6) The Company will file all executed large load contracts with the Commission as required by the 
Revision Approval Order.  
  
7) At least annually, the Company will update inputs to the minimum bill calculation.  Whenever 
the Company updates inputs to the minimum bill calculation, the Company shall notify Staff of 
the updates and shall provide Staff with an updated cost model.   
  
8) The Commission Staff may recommend that the Commission modify how the Company 
calculates minimum bill amounts for prospective contracts.   
  
 
 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
ATTACHMENT A 
Docket No. 44280, GPC 2022 Rate Case 
Revision to Rules and Regulations Tariff Compliance Filing 
Page 4 of 5 
III. 
SUMMARY 
  
At the Commission’s April 10, 2025, Energy Committee meeting, Staff recommended the 
Commission approve Staff’s recommendation as a fair resolution of the issues presented in the 
Georgia Power Company’s Revision to Rules and Regulations Tariff Compliance Filing.  
  
At its April 15, 2025, Administrative Session, the Commission voted to approve Staff’s 
recommendation.  
     
  
*     *     *     *     *  
  
WHEREFORE IT IS ORDERED, that Staff’s recommendations on Georgia Power 
Company’s Revision to Rules and Regulations Tariff Compliance Filing, are hereby adopted.    
  
ORDERED FURTHER, that the Commission approves the updates to the Company’s 
tariffs and the large load contracting framework for the terms and conditions implementing the 
revisions to the Company’s Rules and Regulations as approved in the Revision Approval Order.  
  
ORDERED FURTHER, that Staff will continue to review the tariffed rates and can 
recommend that the rates be increased should Staff deem such recommendation appropriate.   
  
ORDERED FURTHER, that the Commission retains the ability to modify the tariffed 
rates as allowed under Georgia law.  
  
ORDERED FURTHER, that the terms and conditions of each large load contract 
including the minimum bill, termination, and collateral provisions will apply the framework in the 
same manner as provided and demonstrated to Staff. To the extent that the actual language in a 
contract differs from the language in the draft terms and conditions provided to Staff, Staff may 
object to such language if Staff deems that such modification is substantive and does not 
adequately protect existing customers from bearing any of the costs of adding the customer. The 
terms and conditions shall include language that if the tariffed rates are increased then the customer 
will be responsible for paying the new higher rates.  
  
ORDERED FURTHER, that Staff reserves the ability to review how the large load 
contracting framework and the minimum bill methodology implementing the revisions to the 
Company’s Rules and Regulations is applied in practice and Staff may object to a minimum bill 
amount if Staff deems that it is insufficient.  
  
ORDERED FURTHER, that as defined in the revisions to the Rules and Regulations (100 
MW or greater at one or more premises located on one tract or contiguous tracts of land), the 
Company will file each such contract with the Commission at least thirty (30) days prior to 
execution of the contract. At the time of such filing, the Company will provide Commission Staff 
documentation demonstrating that the contract complies with the requirements of the Revision 
Approval Order. Once filed, Commission Staff may raise objections to the contract, and the 
Company and Commission Staff will work together in good faith to resolve any such objections. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
ATTACHMENT A 
Docket No. 44280, GPC 2022 Rate Case 
Revision to Rules and Regulations Tariff Compliance Filing 
Page 5 of 5 
If Staff does not file an objection within thirty (30) days of the filing of the contract, the contract 
shall be deemed approved.  If Staff files an objection, the contract shall be approved if the 
Commission takes no action within thirty (30) days after the Staff’s filing.   After the first twelve 
(12) executed large load contracts have been filed, Staff and the Company shall meet in good faith 
to discuss whether this process should be modified.  
  
ORDERED FURTHER, that the Company will file all executed large load contracts with 
the Commission as required by the Revision Approval Order.  
  
ORDERED FURTHER, that at least annually, the Company will update inputs to the 
minimum bill calculation.  Whenever the Company updates inputs to the minimum bill calculation, 
the Company shall notify Staff of the updates and shall provide Staff with an updated cost model.  
  
ORDERED FURTHER, that the Commission Staff may recommend that the Commission 
modify how the Company calculates minimum bill amounts for prospective contracts.  
  
ORDERED FURTHER, that in implementing the tariffs and the large load contracting 
framework, the Company shall continue to exercise the discretion under the Rules and Regulations 
revisions in a manner designed to protect existing customers from bearing any of the costs of 
adding large load customers 100 MW or greater, including with respect to the minimum bill, 
termination, and collateral provisions established for these large load customers.  
  
    
ORDERED FURTHER, that a motion for reconsideration, rehearing, oral argument, or 
any other motion shall not stay the effective date of this Order unless otherwise ordered by the 
Commission.  
  
ORDERED FURTHER, that jurisdiction over this matter is expressly retained for the 
purpose of entering such further Order or Orders as this Commission may deem just and proper.  
  
The above by the action of the Commission in the Administrative Session on the 15th day of April 
2025.  
 
 
______________________________ 
______________________________ 
SALLIE TANNER  
 
  
JASON SHAW   
EXECUTIVE SECRETARY 
 
CHAIRMAN 
 
 
 
 
 
______________________________ 
 ______________________________ 
DATE  
 
 
 
 
   DATE 
 

--- PAGE 9 ---
ATTACHMENT B 
Docket Nos. 56298 and 56310, GPC 2029-2031 All-Source RFP and Supp. Resources 
Procedural and Scheduling Order 
Page 1 of 10 
COMMISSIONERS: 
 
JASON SHAW, Chairman  
FITZ JOHNSON, Vice-Chairman 
  
TIM G. ECHOLS  
LAUREN “BUBBA” McDONALD                          
TRICIA PRIDEMORE                           
 
    
 
 
REECE McALISTER  
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 
  
SALLIE TANNER 
EXECUTIVE SECRETARY 
       Georgia Public Service Commission 
(404) 656-4501 
(800) 282-5813 
244 WASHINGTON STREET, SW 
ATLANTA, GEORGIA 30334-5701 
FAX: (404) 656-2341  
psc.ga.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PROCEDURAL AND SCHEDULING ORDER 
 
Docket No. 56298 
 
GEORGIA POWER COMPANY’S APPLICATION FOR THE CERTIFICATION OF 
CAPACITY FROM THE 2029-2031 ALL-SOURCE RFP 
 
Docket No. 56310 
 
GEORGIA POWER COMPANY’S APPLICATION FOR THE CERTIFICATION OF 
CAPACITY SUPPLEMENTAL RESOURCES 
 
 
 
The Georgia Public Service Commission "Commission") hereby issues this Procedural and 
Scheduling Order in accordance with the authority and duty conferred upon it by the Integrated 
Resource Plan Act (“IRP Act”), O.C.G.A. § 46-3A-1 et seq, as well as Commission Utility Rule 
Chapter 515-3-4, Integrated Resource Planning, and for the purpose of scheduling pleadings and 
a hearing to consider the matters described herein. Notification of the following matter is hereby 
given: 
 
I. 
BACKGROUND  
 
In its Order Adopting Stipulation in Docket No. 44160 (“2022 IRP Order”), regarding Georgia 
Power Company’s (“Georgia Power” or “Company”) 2022 Integrated Resource Plan, the 
Commission approved a Request for Proposals (“RFP”) soliciting capacity for the years 2029-
2031. Georgia Power’s 2029-2031 All-Source Capacity RFP was required to follow the 
solicitation, product requirements, regulatory accommodations, and schedule found the RFP 
documents approved by the Commission on June 18, 2024.  
On July 30, 2025, Georgia Power filed an Application for the Certification of the 2029-2031 All-
Source Capacity generating resources requesting that the Commission issue an order granting a 

--- PAGE 10 ---
ATTACHMENT B 
Docket Nos. 56298 and 56310, GPC 2029-2031 All-Source RFP and Supp. Resources 
Procedural and Scheduling Order 
Page 2 of 10 
certificate of public convenience and necessity (“Certificate”) for the selected generation 
resources. 
 
In the Company’s 2025 Integrated Resource Plan, in Docket No. 56002, the Commission approved 
a stipulation that stated that “the Parties are aware that the Load Forecast is largely driven by the 
anticipated growth from only one customer class for which there is a lack of historic information 
to inform many of the assumptions used in the forecast” and therefore required, among other 
things, that: 
 
a. The Company and Staff shall work collaboratively to modify or refine the Load Forecast, 
including methodologies, as additional experience and information is received. For those 
reasons, and independent of any conclusions stipulated in paragraph 2 of the Stipulation, 
for the purposes of the 2029-2031 All-Source Certification Proceeding, the Company and 
Staff shall update the methodologies as they each determine to be appropriate, and Staff 
may propose that the Commission modify the methodology to include the materialization 
of executed Contracts for Electric Service in determining the Load Forecast. 
 
b. The Company will continue its quarterly filings of Large Load Economic Development 
Reports and will include in each quarterly report as additional information the date that any 
new project enters the large load pipeline, the announced load of any new project entering 
the large load pipeline, and new large load projects that have entered into a Contract for 
Electric Service. 
 
c. Georgia Power shall update the capacity need in the 2029-2031 All-Source Certification 
Proceeding in October 2025 with the B2026 Load Forecast, shall file additional Load 
Forecast updates in February 2027 with the B2027 Load Forecast, and as part of the 2028 
IRP.  
 
d. The Company shall be authorized to seek certification of up to 8,500 MW of capacity from 
the 2029-2031 All Source Capacity RFP. The Company agrees to provide generation 
procurement options to meet generation needs of at least 6,000 MW and up to 8,500 MW 
necessary to meet Georgia Power system demand. Upon consideration of the Company’s 
updated October 2025 Load Forecast, as well as consideration of any Staff-proposed Load 
Forecast, the Commission can then appropriately determine necessary generation resources 
to certify as part of the 2029-2031 All-Source Capacity RFP certification proceeding. 
  
On July 30, 2025, Georgia Power filed an Application for the Certification of Supplemental 
Resources to be added in the years 2028-2031, representing capacity potentially available outside 
of the 2029-2031 All-Source Capacity RFP process. As similar issues are involved, and a 
Company-wide resource portfolio is under consideration, the All-Source and Supplemental 
Resources dockets will be considered concurrently per the schedule below. 

--- PAGE 11 ---
ATTACHMENT B 
Docket Nos. 56298 and 56310, GPC 2029-2031 All-Source RFP and Supp. Resources 
Procedural and Scheduling Order 
Page 3 of 10 
To expedite the schedule in these certification proceedings, it is necessary for Georgia Power to 
file its updated capacity need and B2026 Load Forecast (with associated models, workpapers, 
calculations and assumptions) no later than September 17, 2025. Likewise, the response time for 
discovery requests will be shortened to 15 days and the Company will pay for, and cause to be 
filed, expedited hearing transcripts.  
 
 
Issues Involved 
 
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 46-3A-3(a), after January 31, 1992, no utility shall commence the 
construction of an electric plant, sell an existing plant or any portion thereof which is included in 
the retail rate base or which has been certified, enter into a long-term purchase of electric power, 
or make expenditures for a demand-side capacity option for serving the utility's Georgia retail 
customers without having first obtained from the commission a certificate that public convenience 
and necessity requires, or will require, such construction, sale, purchase, or expenditure. 
 
The issues to be addressed shall include those which are required pursuant to the IRP Act, 
O.C.G.A. § 46-3A-1 et seq., and the Commission’s implementation of Rule 515-3-4 as well as all 
other related issues this Commission deems appropriate.  Additional issues shall include: 
 
Should the Commission issue an order approving, denying, or modifying the requests made 
by the Company in its July 30, 2025 Applications for approval of capacity from the All-
Source RFP and from Supplemental Resources identified by the Company outside of the 
RFP process? 
 
After considering the Company’s updated B2026 Load Forecast, as well as considering  
any Staff-proposed Load Forecast or modification or the load forecast or modification 
proposed by any intervenor, which generation resources need to be certified in this 
consolidated proceeding? 
 
Are the costs associated with Georgia Power’s requests reasonable?  
 
Do the supplemental resources, identified outside of an RFP process, provide extraordinary 
advantage to ratepayers, and should Commission discretion be exercised in approving these 
capacity resources?  
 
If a portfolio of resources is developed from capacity available from the All-Source RFP 
and the Company-identified supplemental resources, what is the optimal portfolio to 
maximize benefits to ratepayers?  
 
Are the alternative terms and contract considerations for the supplemental resources power 
purchase agreements reasonable?  
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 12 ---
ATTACHMENT B 
Docket Nos. 56298 and 56310, GPC 2029-2031 All-Source RFP and Supp. Resources 
Procedural and Scheduling Order 
Page 4 of 10 
 
II. 
PRELIMINARY DIRECTIVES   
 
The Commission orders this Procedural and Scheduling Order to establish discovery procedures 
and establish a hearing schedule. The Public Interest Advocacy (“PIA”) Staff is appointed as the 
agent for the Commission for discovery purposes.  Georgia Power is hereby made a party and shall 
be bound by the Commission’s rulings in this docket and is directed to publish notice of this 
proceeding.   
 
Pursuant to the Commission’s Utility Rule 515-2-1-.04(3), Georgia Power is directed to give first 
notice of the proceedings in this docket no later than 30 days after payment of the Certification 
Fee. 
 
These proceedings shall be considered as a contested case under O.C.G.A. § 50-13-13. These 
proceedings also encompass complex litigation as that term is used in O.C.G.A.  § 9-11-33(a) and 
discovery procedures apply accordingly. 
 
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 50-13-13, this proceeding shall be considered a contested case. As such, 
the Commission hereby designates the following staff members to act as PIA Staff in this 
proceeding: 
 
Robert Trokey  
Steve Roetger 
Joseph Schneider 
Jason Forsythe 
Tom Newsome 
Jamie Barber 
John Kaduk 
Bobby Iseley 
Justin Pawluk 
Chris Collado 
 
The PIA Staff shall be responsible for performing an independent evaluation of the filed case from 
the standpoint of promoting the public interest and just and reasonable rates and advocating for 
that position. The PIA Staff is considered a party to the case and may negotiate settlements with 
other parties, in the public interest. 
 
The Commission authorizes the PIA Staff to issue discovery pursuant to O.C.G.A. 46-2-57(a).  
The PIA Staff may conduct depositions and use any other methods of formal and informal 
discovery in this docket. The use of any informal discovery methods shall not augment or abridge 
existing discovery rights and responsibilities. Due to the expedited schedule in these proceedings, 
the response time for discovery requests will be shortened to 15 days. 
 
The Commission hereby designates the following staff members to act as Commissioner Advisory 
Staff in these proceedings: 
 

--- PAGE 13 ---
ATTACHMENT B 
Docket Nos. 56298 and 56310, GPC 2029-2031 All-Source RFP and Supp. Resources 
Procedural and Scheduling Order 
Page 5 of 10 
Nancy Gibson, Keimani Harvey, Ben Deitchman, Shemetha Jones, William Threatt and 
Alicia McBride 
 
III. 
HEARING SCHEDULE, FILING DATES AND PROCEDURES 
 
July 30, 2025 
 
Georgia Power filed an Application requesting Certification of capacity resources from the 2029-
2031 All-Source Capacity RFP (Docket No. 56298) and Company-identified supplemental 
resources (Docket No. 56310). 
 
August 15, 2025 
 
Georgia Power shall pre-file direct testimony on all issues in Docket No. 56298, except the new 
load forecast and the amount of capacity to be certified, and shall pre-file direct testimony in 
Docket 56310 by 4:00 p.m. 
 
August 19, 2025 
 
At the regularly scheduled Administrative Session, the Commission will establish the fees in 
these dockets pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 46-3A-5(c).  
 
September 17, 2025 
 
Georgia Power shall update the capacity need in the 2029-2031 All-Source Certification 
Proceeding with the B2026 Load Forecast and shall file all models, workpapers, calculations and 
supporting material associated with its B2026 Load Forecast including, but not limited to, its Load 
Realization Model. 
 
Georgia Power shall pre-file direct testimony in Docket 56298 on the new load forecast and the 
amount of capacity requested to be certified by 4:00 p.m.  
 
Georgia Power shall remit the fees for these proceedings.   
 
October 21-23, 2025 
 
Immediately following the Commission’s Regularly Scheduled Administrative Session, the 
Commission will hear applications to intervene and any objections thereto, and any motions 
concerning the utilities pre-filed testimony and other appropriate motions.  Following these 
preliminary matters, the Commission will conduct hearings on the direct case of Georgia Power in 
Docket Nos. 56298 and 56310.   
 
November 12, 2025 
 
Staff and Interveners shall pre-file direct testimony in Docket Nos. 56298 and 56310 by 4:00 p.m. 
 

--- PAGE 14 ---
ATTACHMENT B 
Docket Nos. 56298 and 56310, GPC 2029-2031 All-Source RFP and Supp. Resources 
Procedural and Scheduling Order 
Page 6 of 10 
 
November 26, 2025 
 
Georgia Power may file any pre-filed rebuttal testimony in Docket Nos. 56298 and 56310 by 4:00 
p.m. 
 
December 10-12, 2025 
 
Commencing at 9:30 a.m., the Commission will hear any motions concerning testimony and other 
appropriate motions. Following these preliminary matters, the Commission will conduct hearings 
on the direct testimony of Staff and Intervenors followed by any rebuttal testimony filed by 
Georgia Power Company in Docket No. 56298 and 56310. 
 
December 16, 2025 
 
All briefs and/or proposed orders shall be filed with the Commission by 4:00 p.m.   
 
December 19, 2025 
 
Commencing at 9:30 a.m. at a specially scheduled Energy Committee, the Commission will hear 
from parties.   
 
December 19, 2025 
 
At a specially scheduled Administrative Session immediately following the special Energy 
Committee, the Commission will render a decision in Docket No. 56298 and 56310.   
 
Statutory Deadline for Commission Order 
 
The Statutory deadline for a certificate review is 180 days after the utility remits the fee, pursuant 
to O.C.G.A. § 46-3A-05(c). As set forth above, Georgia Power will remit its fee on September 17, 
2025; therefore, the statutory deadline is March 16, 2026.   
 
 
INTERVENTION AND HEARING PROCEDURES 
 
1. 
Intervention 
 
Intervention Period 
 
(a) 
Any person or party, on whom a statute does not confer an unconditional right to intervene, 
must file an application for leave to intervene within 30 days following the first published 
notice of the proceeding.  Pursuant to Rule 515-2-1-.04(3), Georgia Power will be directed 
to give first notice of its proceedings in this case not later than September 19, 2025. 
 
Application Requirements 

--- PAGE 15 ---
ATTACHMENT B 
Docket Nos. 56298 and 56310, GPC 2029-2031 All-Source RFP and Supp. Resources 
Procedural and Scheduling Order 
Page 7 of 10 
 
 
(b) 
In addition to the requirements prescribed by O.C.G.A. § 46-2-59 for applications for leave 
to intervene, the application must (1) identify other intervening parties or intervening party 
applications whose interest is similar to that of the applicant, along with an explanation of 
why the identified intervening party or intervening party applicant will not adequately 
represent the applicant’s interest; and (2) state the applicant’s present intention to submit 
direct testimony and by whom and on what subject.  The requirements identified herein 
shall constitute a continuing obligation of the applicant or intervening party.   
 
Late Applications for Intervention 
 
(c) 
Any application for leave to intervene filed late must state the reason why such application 
was not submitted within 30 days of first published notice.  Objections to late intervention 
applications must be filed in conformance with the requirements of O.C.G.A. § 46-2-59-
(d). 
 
Rulings on Intervention Applications 
 
(d) 
The Commission will take up and rule on applications for leave to intervene at the first 
hearing date set in this docket. 
 
Procedures and Forms for Making an Application to Intervene 
 
(e) 
Applications to intervene and Commission approval thereof are covered by Official Code 
of Georgia Annotated § 46-2-59, and the Commission’s Utility Rule 515-2-1-.06.  Each 
applicant shall submit their application to intervene to the Commission, addressed to the 
Executive Secretary, Ms. Sallie Tanner, 244 Washington St. S.W., Atlanta, Georgia 30334-
5701. 
 
In addition, each applicant shall submit a copy of their application to Georgia Power1, and 
all other parties who have applied to intervene, and submit a Certificate of Service to the 
Commission certifying that these copies have been served on the other parties.  To obtain 
a list of other applicants to intervene, contact Ms. Quawanda Boyer, Georgia Public Service 
Commission, 244 Washington St., S.W., Atlanta, Georgia 30334-5701, (Telephone: (404) 
656-0977). 
 
2. 
Service 
 
Each party has the responsibility to serve copies of any documents filed with the Commission upon 
each intervenor and intervenor applicant.  Furthermore, in the case of documents filed prior to the 
deadline for intervention established above, copies shall also be served upon each party indicated 
in the Certificate of Service accompanying this Order. 
 
3. 
Witnesses’ Testimony  
 
1 Georgia Power Company, as the applicant in its docket, is the party of record upon which applications to intervene must be served.  Failure to 
serve the applicant, or any other party, tolls a fifteen (15) day limit for objections to interventions until this defect is corrected. 

--- PAGE 16 ---
ATTACHMENT B 
Docket Nos. 56298 and 56310, GPC 2029-2031 All-Source RFP and Supp. Resources 
Procedural and Scheduling Order 
Page 8 of 10 
 
(a) 
Summations of direct testimony will take no longer than fifteen (15) minutes or, at the 
discretion of the Commission, no longer than thirty (30) minutes. 
 
(b)  
Summations should be limited to testimony and exhibits in the pre-filed testimony. 
 
(c)  
Demonstrative handouts intended to be used during summations of the pre-filed testimony 
or in opening or closing statements, if applicable, must be pre-filed at least five (5) days 
prior to the hearing and must be limited to the scope of the testimony and exhibits in the 
pre-filed testimony. 
 
 (d)  
Except for good cause shown, corrections to testimony must be pre-filed at least five (5) 
days prior to the hearing. 
 
 (e)  
In the absence of a valid objection made and sustained to pre-filed testimony, the pre-filed 
testimony and exhibits, with corrections, will be admitted into the record as if orally given 
prior to the witness’ summation, subject to a motion to strike after admission or other 
relevant objection. 
 
(f) 
Where the testimony of a panel of witnesses is presented, cross-examination may either be 
addressed to the panel, in which case any member of the panel may answer, or cross-
examination may be addressed to an individual panel member, in which case that panel 
member shall give the answer; provided, however, that any other panel member shall be 
allowed to supplement the answer given. 
 
(g) 
Motions to strike any portion of pre-filed testimony must be filed at least two days prior to 
the hearing.  
 
(h) 
Any individual that presents testimony during this proceeding may not conduct cross 
examination of other parties. 
 
4. 
Hearing Exhibits 
 
For the record in all hearings, it shall be the responsibility of the parties sponsoring any hearing 
exhibits to ensure that the Hearing Reporter, all parties of record, Commissioners, and Advisory 
Staff receive copies of the hearing exhibits at the time of introducing the exhibits at the hearings.  
(Exhibits filed with pre-filed testimony should already have been provided, as per Commission 
Rule 515-2-1-.04(3).) 
 
Specialized Testimony and Assistance 
 
O.C.G.A. § 46-2-33(a) provides that the cost to the Commission of providing reasonably necessary 
specialized testimony and assistance in proceedings initiated by a utility shall be charged to the 
affected utility.  It further provides that, with certain exceptions, the amount of such charges shall 
not exceed $297,646 per case per year except for utility rate cases, generation construction 
monitoring, integrated resource planning cases, and generation certification cases, to the extent 

--- PAGE 17 ---
ATTACHMENT B 
Docket Nos. 56298 and 56310, GPC 2029-2031 All-Source RFP and Supp. Resources 
Procedural and Scheduling Order 
Page 9 of 10 
such amount is not also being recovered pursuant to an order issued under subsection (c) of GA 
Code Section 46-3A-5, which shall not exceed $892,939 per case per year.  O.C.G.A. § 46-2-33(b) 
provides that at the time the Commission determines that specialized testimony and assistance is 
required, the Commission shall issue an order setting forth the scope and budget for such testimony 
and assistance.  
 
O.C.G.A. § 46-2-33(b) provides that all invoices relating to the testimony and assistance shall be 
subject to Commission review and approval, and no utility shall be required to pay any invoice not 
approved by the Commission.  O.C.G.A. § 46-2-33(c) provides that the amounts paid by regulated 
companies under this Code section shall be deemed a necessary cost of providing service, and the 
utility shall be entitled to recover the full amount of any costs charged to the utility pursuant to 
this Code section. O.C.G.A. § 46-2-33(c) further provides that, at the election of the utility, the 
utility shall be entitled to recover all such costs promptly through a reasonably designed rider 
designated for such purpose.   
 
O.C.G.A. § 46-2-33(c) provides that the amounts paid by regulated companies under this Code 
section shall be deemed a necessary cost of providing service, and the utility shall be entitled to 
recover the full amount of any costs charged to the utility pursuant to this Code section. O.C.G.A. 
§ 46-2-33(c) further provides that, at the election of the utility, the utility shall be entitled to recover 
all such costs promptly through a reasonably designed rider designated for such purpose.   
 
The Commission hereby determines that specialized testimony and assistance is required in Docket 
Nos. 56298 and 56310. Accordingly, the Commission hereby sets forth the initial scope and budget 
for such assistance as described below. It’s anticipated that additional consultants will be added 
for areas not yet under contract including, but not limited to, the review of self-build cost 
reasonableness.  
 
J. Kennedy and Associates 
$ 175,000 
Daymark Energy Advisors 
$   89,250 
GPMA, LLC  
 
$   92,000 
 
Establishment of Fee 
 
With regard to the establishment of a fee in a proceeding in which a utility is seeking a certificate, 
O.C.G.A. § 46-3A-5(c) states: 
 
(c) Within 60 days after the filing of an integrated resource plan or an application has been made 
with the commission for a certificate or amendment, the commission shall establish a fee therefor 
and notify the applicant thereof. The fee amount so established shall be in an amount reasonably 
necessary to defray the expense of the commission in reviewing the plan or determining whether 
to grant the application, including but not limited to the expense of conducting any certification 
proceedings required for such application. The fee so established shall not be recoverable from 
ratepayers of the applicant if the application or certification is denied nor shall the fee for review 
of the plan or any subsequent amendment thereto be recoverable from ratepayers. Such fee must 
be remitted to the commission before the commission may take any further action upon the 
application. For purposes of any time periods established in subsection (b) of this Code section 

--- PAGE 18 ---
ATTACHMENT B 
Docket Nos. 56298 and 56310, GPC 2029-2031 All-Source RFP and Supp. Resources 
Procedural and Scheduling Order 
Page 10 of 10 
and subsection (c) of Code Section 46-3A-2, an application shall be deemed to have been filed 
only when the fee established therefore has been remitted to the commission. In the event a joint 
application is filed by more than one utility, a single such fee only shall be required. The funds 
assessed and collected pursuant to this subsection shall be deposited in the state's general fund. 
 
Accordingly, the Staff shall estimate the cost to review the filing to accommodate Commission 
approval no later than September 16, 2025.  
 
********** 
 
 
WHEREFORE, IT IS ORDERED, that the procedures and schedules contained within 
this Procedural and Scheduling Order are hereby adopted by this Commission. 
 
 
ORDERED FURTHER, that Georgia Power shall file all models, workpapers, calculations 
and supporting material associated with its B2026 Load Forecast including, but not limited to, its 
Load Realization Model, no later than September 17, 2025. 
 
 
ORDERED FURTHER, that the fee to be paid by Georgia Power Company on September 
17, 2025 for the Commission’s review of its Certificate filing shall be approved by the Commission 
on September 16, 2025. 
 
 
ORDERED FURTHER, that a motion for reconsideration, rehearing or oral argument or 
any other motion shall not stay the effective date of this Order, unless otherwise ordered by the 
Commission. 
 
 
ORDERED FURTHER, jurisdiction over this matter is expressly retained for the purpose 
of entering such further Order or Orders as this Commission may deem just and proper. 
 
 
The above by action of the Commission in its Administrative Session on the 5th day of August 
2025. 
 
 
 
______________________________ 
______________________________ 
SALLIE TANNER 
JASON SHAW 
EXECUTIVE SECRETARY 
CHAIRMAN 
 
 
 
______________________________ 
______________________________ 
Date 
Date 
