--- PAGE 1 ---
1 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the       )            
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Interstate Transmission System                 ) 
 
COMMENTS OF 
THE UTILITY INTERVENTION UNIT 
 
On October 23, 2025, pursuant to section 403 of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act, the Secretary of Energy issued a directive to the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission (Commission or FERC) to initiate an advanced notice of 
proposed rulemaking (ANOPR) for consideration and final action by April 30, 2026. The 
ANOPR focuses on reforms to the interconnection processes for large loads connecting to 
the transmission system. The Commission issued a Notice Inviting Comments on October 
27, 2025. The period for receiving comments was subsequently extended by the 
Commission to November 21, 2025.1 
The New York State Department of State Utility Intervention Unit (UIU) offers 
the following comments to inform the Commission’s decision-making in this proceeding. 
The UIU is statutorily responsible under New York State Executive Law Section 94-a for 
representing the interests of consumers of the State of New York before federal, state, 
and local administrative and regulatory agencies engaged in the regulation of energy 
services. UIU is also the designated Statewide Consumer Advocate when participating in 
matters before the New York Independent System Operator (NYISO). In this role, UIU 
serves as a member of the End-Use Consumer Sector to advance the interests of end-use 
 
1 Notice Granting Extension of Time. 

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
 
consumers. The outcome of any changes due to this process could have significant 
impacts on the customers that we represent. 
I. 
Introduction and Summary 
Data centers often require substantial grid upgrades, and unless carefully 
managed, these costs risk being unfairly shifted to residential and small business 
ratepayers who do not directly benefit.  Protecting consumers means ensuring that 
developers bear the costs of infrastructure driven by their own demand (ignoring co-
located generation), that planning processes remain open to public scrutiny, and that 
regional coordination prevents unintended reliability or cost consequences. Transmission 
Owners should require large loads to acquire transmission services commensurate with 
their withdrawal rights. Moreover, transmission planning must align with public policy 
goals, including decarbonization and energy efficiency, to ensure that large load 
interconnections serve the broader public interest and not just their own private 
commercial gain. 
The Commission’s ANOPR proposes reforms to address emerging challenges 
associated with the interconnection of large loads to the transmission system.2 The 
Commission seeks comments as to whether it should establish standardized procedures 
and agreements for large loads, generally 20 MW and above connecting directly to the 
bulk transmission grid, including hybrid facilities that co-locate generation and load 
behind a single point of interconnection. UIU recommends that the Commission consider 
the following matters in the content of the rulemaking: 
1. 
Existing loads should not pay, even indirectly, for large load interconnections. 
 
2 ANOPR at P 1. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
 
2. 
The Commission should respect regional differences and variations among 
RTO/ISO interconnection frameworks. 
3. 
Large loads should be integrated into the cluster study processes, cost-
allocation methodologies, and reliability review standards. 
4. 
Large load interconnections should not adversely impact resource adequacy, 
i.e., should not take supply away from existing network loads. 
II. 
Jurisdiction and Scope 
On July 28, 2023, the Commission issued a new rule to reform procedures and 
agreements that electric transmission providers use to integrate new generating facilities 
into the electric grid. Designated as Order No. 2023, the Commission adopted these 
reforms to reduce backlogs for projects seeking to connect to the transmission system, 
improve certainty in the interconnection processes managed by the dozens of 
transmission providers around the country, and ensure access to the transmission system 
for new technologies. On March 21, 2024, the Commission amended parts of that Order 
in Order No. 2023-A by providing modifications and specific clarifications regarding 
generator interconnection procedures. 
Substantial work has been done under FERC Order No. 2023 and with the NYISO 
through its compliance filings; that work needs to be recognized and preserved. 
Significant progress has already been completed on load modeling, queue administration, 
and transmission planning. Any new large load rules should be built upon NYISO’s 
established interconnection processes, manuals, and datasets rather than overriding them. 
Creating a national standard could introduce confusion, conflicting study timelines, or 

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
 
inconsistent cost-responsibility determinations at a time when speed in the 
interconnection process is needed most.  
The Commission should consider the unique structure of each RTO/ISO and 
allow regions to preserve the right to seek variations. The Commission should be mindful 
of costs and burdens to ratepayers associated with bifurcating interconnection protocols 
for generation and loads as well and avoid the need to relitigate recently settled cost-
allocation precedents established under NYISO Attachments HH. UIU urges the 
Commission to ensure that existing loads do not pay for large load interconnection and 
that the interconnection of large loads does take away or diminish any existing network 
load rights.  
III. 
 Study Process  
UIU supports the ANOPR proposal to study load and hybrid facilities together 
with generating facilities. UIU agrees that both generation and large load projects create 
changes in system power flows, and thus large load and generation should be studied 
under similar methodologies to ensure a fair, comparable, and coordinated infrastructure 
planning across the NYISO bulk power system. In NYISO, Attachment HH of the Open 
Access Transmission Tariff (OATT) governs generator and storage interconnections 
including the procedural steps such as Feasibility Studies, System Impact Studies and 
Facilities Studies.3 Attachment HH defines cost allocation for transmission projects that 
are required as a result of an interconnection request which could include a generator, 
transmission project, or large load. Manual 23 provides a procedural and technical 
 
3 New York Independent System Operator (NYISO) Open Access Transmission Tariff, Attachment HH - 
Standard Interconnection Procedures (eff May 2, 2024). 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
 
companion to Attachment HH.4 Together, both documents provide an important 
framework for large load interconnection. 
IV. 
 Readiness Requirements 
UIU supports the ANOPR proposal to require that generating facilities, load and 
hybrid facilities be subject to standardized study deposits, readiness requirements, and 
withdrawal penalties. NYISO’s unified process under Attachments HH and Manual 23 
ensures that network upgrades are coordinated, non-duplicative, and properly sized at just 
and reasonable rates to the consumers. Large loads impose comparable and quantifiable 
impacts to the transmission system that require careful evaluation and consideration to 
interconnection within NYISO. Any interconnection must be studied for their effect on 
system reliability, deliverability, and congestion to ensure the reliability of the bulk 
power system.  
The NYISO Interconnection Queue process established in NYISO Attachment 
HH set forth reasonable analytical steps, queue priority rules, and project milestones that 
have been vetted and approved to deter speculative projects and provide transmission 
providers with useful information to more accurately forecast demand on their systems. 
UIU supports applying equitable and consistent standards, such as the established NYISO 
interconnection procedures, to large loads to ensure the delivery of power at an equitable, 
least-cost, just and reasonable rate. UIU opposes any consideration of a less rigorous 
interconnection process applicable to large load interconnection. If large load 
interconnections were managed through a separate, less-rigorous process, it could create 
inequities and disrupt the timing and results of sequential interconnection cluster studies.  
 
4 New York Independent System Operator (NYISO) Manual 23, Transmission Expansion and 
Interconnection Manual. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
 
V. 
Hybrid Resources Incentives  
Utilizing the ANOPR example, where a hybrid facility consisting of a 500 MW 
load and a 600 MW generating facility seeks no withdrawal rights and 100MW of 
injection rights, UIU opposes the contention that the hybrid facilities should not be 
required to meet the minimum interconnection requirements applicable to its entire load 
or generation.5 UIU suggests that hybrid facilities be studied for their full injection and 
withdrawal rights as failing to consider these impacts could impose unnecessary risks to 
the bulk power system.  
The type of incentive promulgated in the ANOPR would distort queue 
prioritization, potentially allowing large loads to leapfrog generation projects competing 
for the same transfer capability because they are not required to financially support their 
full interconnection request. UIU requests that Commission exercise caution when 
considering “incentives” for hybrid resources to ensure that co-location does not 
adversely impact the reliability of bulk power system or compromise interconnection on a 
non-discriminatory basis.  
VI. 
Curtailment and Dispatchability of Large Loads 
UIU rejects the ANOPRs premise that large loads that agree to be curtailable and 
hybrid facilities that agree to be curtailable and dispatchable should be expedited. UIU 
contends that the system operator's ability to control such facilities through curtailment 
and/or dispatch must be sufficient for the system operator to integrate the facility into 
both operations and system planning. However, curtailable and dispatchability are not a 
substitute for generation capacity, such that large loads agreeing to disconnect in 
 
5 ANOPR at P 22. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
 
exchange for some sort of non-firm service may result in degrading the reliability of the 
bulk power system. 
For example, large loads present increased uncertainty in load forecasting. Large 
loads can be flexible and can change their consumption patterns quickly, making it harder 
for system operators to predict demand accurately. In addition, large loads can create 
operational complexity if curtailment is voluntary or price-driven, and operators cannot 
guarantee reductions during emergencies.  
Similarly, large load presents some market and economic risks such as price 
volatility wherein flexible loads responding to real-time prices can amplify price swings, 
especially in scarcity conditions. In addition, large loads could strategically curtail to 
influence prices or avoid uplift charges, creating potential for gaming. Finally, another 
risk is extreme weather events, as flexible loads may not curtail during critical periods if 
economic incentives are insufficient, increasing stress on the system. 
Risk Matrix: Curtailable/Flexible Load: 
Risk 
Likelihood 
Impact 
Uncertainty in Load Forecasting 
High 
High 
Operational Complexity 
Medium 
High 
Transmission Planning Errors 
Medium 
Medium 
Price Volatility 
High 
Medium 
Gaming Potential 
Low 
Medium 
Extreme Event Curtailment Failure Low-Medium High 
 

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 
 
For example, during such extreme weather events as heat waves or winter 
reliability emergencies, these facilities may be unable or unwilling to curtail due to 
operational constraints. If curtailment fails, the system operator must still serve the load, 
often dispatching higher cost peaking resources. Those emergency costs flow through 
NYISO’s real-time market and appear in ratepayers’ bills via uplift and capacity charges. 
A customer receiving interconnection priority for being curtailable but failing to perform 
could expose consumers to higher costs and reliability risks. Accordingly, the 
Commission should require that any curtailable-load program include enforceable 
telemetry, performance metrics, and non-performance penalties consistent with NYISO’s 
Installed Capacity Market Manual, Section 4.12 (Demand Response Performance 
Criteria). 
VII. 
 Network Upgrades for Hybrid Facilities 
Under NYISO’s current interconnection framework, generation developers are 
responsible for 100% of the cost of system upgrades necessary to support their 
interconnection, creating a well-known “first mover” disadvantage.6 While NYISO has 
shifted to a two-phase cluster study approach, cost sharing is only contained within a 
given cluster study.  
The Commission generally applies a “beneficiary pays” framework, meaning that 
the costs for network upgrades are allocated to the specific generator, or load driving the 
need for those facilities, ensuring that costs are roughly commensurate with benefits.7 
 
6 See, Mathangi Srinivasan Kumar, PowerPoint Presentation Interconnection Process Overview 
WebEx Presentation 2024, NYISO’s Standard Interconnection Procedures, available at 
https://www.nyiso.com/documents/20142/41887799/NYISOs-Standard-Interconnections-
Procedures.pdf/24a6a12e-bce1-c9ea-3a58-f634dc36bc55?t=1743110746480 
7 See, 18 C.F.R. § 35.35(d)(2). 

--- PAGE 9 ---
9 
 
NYISO uses a proportional MW allocation for shared System Upgrade Facilities within 
its cluster studies and that approach should include hybrid large loads.  
UIU recommends the Commission consider ways to allow cost sharing across 
cluster studies. It is important to understand how the NYISO would treat the ANOPR 
example, where a hybrid facility consisting of a 500 MW load and a 600 MW generating 
facility. NYISO assigns upgrade costs and network upgrades necessary to serve the full 
requirements of the hybrid facility. Any network upgrades that are required from the 
hybrid facility when studied in a given cluster are included as an assumption in 
subsequent studies. Future generators that interconnect without requiring further network 
upgrades, because of a large load's committed upgrades, may reimburse the large load for 
a portion of those costs for a set period (e.g., 10 years). 
This approach diffuses the perverse first mover problem and retains incentives to 
site in reasonable locations (i.e., where incremental upgrade costs are low). Consistent 
with long-standing FERC precedent, all incremental interconnection and upgrade costs 
directly attributable to a new load should be borne by that entity. Large loads differ from 
typical retail demand growth in that they are discrete, identifiable customers capable of 
financing the infrastructure are required to serve them. Applying this type of crediting 
mechanism ensures that utilities do not socialize the costs of new substations, 
transformers, or transmission reinforcements that primarily benefit one or a few large 
customers. The Commission could consider allowing regions such as NYISO to utilize 
this type of approach when developing the large load interconnection standards.  
Each large load project’s cost responsibility must reflect the incremental cost of 
required local and network upgrades, ensuring that large load developers fund the 

--- PAGE 10 ---
10 
 
infrastructure needed to support their own demand. Critically, any measurable reliability 
or congestion relief benefits provided to other transmission customers must be rigorously 
quantified and transparently documented. For example, if a large load triggers upgrades 
that also alleviate pre-existing congestion or enhance system reliability for others, those 
shared benefits may justify partial cost allocation but only to the extent that such benefits 
are technically and rigidly demonstrable and not speculative. Costs unsupported by 
quantifiable benefits must not be socialized to general transmission customers. Uniform 
application of cost-causation principles protects against undue discrimination and hidden 
subsidies, deviating from this discipline risks both inequity and legal challenge under the 
Federal Power Act. 
VIII. Resource Adequacy  
Large loads can present resource adequacy and planning risks as large flexible 
loads may appear firm during planning but curtail during scarcity events, reducing actual 
demand and skewing resource adequacy assumptions. If large loads curtail frequently, 
planners may under-build infrastructure, creating congestion and increasing rate payer 
costs. UIU urges the Commission to protect consumers from bearing adverse impacts 
from large load integration, particularly from energy-intensive developments like data 
centers. Any expansion of NYISO’s interconnection process must strictly adhere to 
Commission-approved transmission planning principles which include, transparency, 
regional coordination, open participation, and cost allocation roughly commensurate with 
benefits.8 The Commission should consider comparable rules around hybrid large loads 
 
8 Order No. 1000, Transmission Planning and Cost Allocation Owning & Operating Pub. Utils., 136 
F.E.R.C. ¶ 61,051 (2011) at P 10–12. (Order No. 1000 is directly related to protecting consumers through 
its goal of ensuring that transmission services are provided at just and reasonable rates and in a manner that 
 

--- PAGE 11 ---
11 
 
to prevent switching or toggling to become behind-the meter (BTM) generation to 
prevent unjust and unreasonable cost shifts to the consumers. For example, an existing 
generator that wants to retreat behind the meter to serve a large load must undergo a 
Reliability Must Run (RMR)-type study that looks forward at expected system conditions 
at least three years forward. The rationale is that removing a resource from the market to 
service a dedicated load could impact resource adequacy. To the extent that it results in a 
shortage, then the resource should not be allowed to go behind the meter unless and until 
the possible shortfall is addressed. In no instance should existing load customers be on 
the hook for increased capacity costs (this includes the cost of RMR-style contracts) 
because a generator has decided to exit the market to serve a large load BTM.  
Similarly large loads with co-located generation should be treated comparably to 
all loads taking firm network transmission service to meet their needs and in doing so, 
have a reasonable expectation that they can purchase power from the network on demand 
and that the power be deliverable and include the responsibility for ancillary services 
based on peak demand without consideration of co-located generation. We advocate that 
the Commission require that all BTM treatment can only proceed after system upgrades 
are made, at the loads expense A no-adverse-impact standard should be applied to system 
resource adequacy, similar to the standard used for firm transmission interconnections. 
IX. 
Conclusion 
The Large Load ANOPR represents an important step toward modernizing and 
standardizing the interconnection framework for the next era of U.S. electrification. 
However, success will depend on building upon existing NYISO processes, maintaining 
 
is not unduly discriminatory or preferential. The components of Order No. 1000 were further expanded on 
in FERC Order No. 1920, particularly in long-term regional transmission planning.) 

--- PAGE 12 ---
12 
 
cost transparency, and upholding consumer-protection principles. The Commission 
should instruct each RTO/ISO to extend its existing methodology of the generator 
interconnection process to large loads, applying uniform study procedures, cost-
allocation rules, and tariff governance. Doing so will ensure that data center and 
industrial growth proceeds in a manner that is economically efficient, reliable, and fair to 
all ratepayers. 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
/s/ John Haff 
John Haff 
Director, Utility Intervention Unit 
NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE 
DIVISION OF CONSUMER PROTECTION 
One Commerce Plaza 
99 Washington Avenue 
Albany, NY 12231-0001 
John.Haff@dos.ny.gov 
