--- PAGE 1 ---
1 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
) 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
 
) 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Interstate Transmission System 
 
) 
) 
REPLY COMMENTS OF SWITCH, LTD. 
Switch, Ltd. (“Switch”) respectfully submits these reply comments in response to the 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC” or the “Commission”) request for comments 
in the above-referenced proceeding on the Secretary of Energy’s proposed advance notice of 
proposed rulemaking (“proposed ANOPR”) to the Commission with respect to the 
interconnection of large loads to the interstate transmission system.1  Switch is a premier 
provider of AI, cloud and enterprise data centers.  As a data center developer and operator, 
Switch appreciates the Commission’s leadership in addressing the interconnection of large loads, 
including data centers, to the interstate transmission system.  Switch generally supports FERC’s 
effort to develop standardized, transparent, and non-discriminatory procedures tailored to large 
load interconnections such as data centers.  Timely and non-discriminatory access to the 
transmission system is essential to reliability, economic growth, and national competitiveness. 
1 See Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Docket No. RM26-4-000, Notice 
Inviting Comments (issued Oct. 27, 2025); Secretary of Energy’s Direction that the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission Initiate Rulemaking Procedures and Proposal Regarding the Interconnection of Large Loads Pursuant 
to the Secretary’s Authority Under Section 403 of the Department of Energy Organization Act, Dep’t of Energy 
(Oct. 23, 2025), available at https://www.energy.gov/sites/default/files/2025-
10/403%20Large%20Loads%20Letter.pdf. 

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
I.
Comments on the Proposed ANOPR 
We are facing a critical juncture in our nation’s history to secure energy dominance and 
win the artificial intelligence and data race, which includes connecting and powering data centers 
as quickly as possible.  Data centers are foundational to the modern economy and support 
essential services across nearly every sector.  Data center operators like Switch are making 
substantial infrastructure investments across the United States. 
Data center development can enhance both the reliability of the grid and affordability for 
ratepayers by increasing grid infrastructure investment and spreading the fixed costs of the 
power system over more users.  For example, recent studies have found that load growth has 
tended to reduce retail electricity prices in recent years.2
As Secretary Wright noted, driving American AI innovation will require unprecedented 
and extraordinary quantities of electricity and substantial investment in the interstate 
transmission system, which must be done in an efficient, fair, and expeditious manner.  We 
commend Secretary Wright and the Commission for recognizing the growing need for a 
standardized, transparent, and efficient process for large load interconnections.  This proceeding 
has the potential to break new ground on rules and regulations that govern how data centers and 
other large loads interconnect to the electric grid.  Those rules and regulations will go a long way 
toward determining whether the United States can develop the data centers necessary to serve its 
2 See, e.g., Wiser, O’Shaughnessy, Barbose, Cappers & Gorman, “Factors Influencing Recent Trends in Retail 
Electricity Prices in the United States,” 38 The Electricity Journal 107516 at 5-6 (Oct. 2025), available at
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tej.2025.107516 (“Contrary to these concerns, our analysis finds that state-level load 
growth in recent years (through 2024) has tended to reduce average retail electricity prices. . . .  This finding aligns 
with the understanding that a primary driver of increased electricity-sector costs in recent years has been distribution 
and transmission expenditures—often devoted to refurbishment or replacement of existing infrastructure rather than 
to serve new loads.  Spreading these fixed costs over more demand naturally exerts downward pressure on retail 
prices.”). 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
economic and national security interests, and do so at the speed necessary to compete—and 
win—in the global AI race. 
Switch generally emphasizes the Data Center Coalition (“DCC”) initial comments 
supporting FERC’s attention and a clear, workable framework for large load interconnection.3
Current practices vary widely across regions, which can create uncertainty and delays that hinder 
investment by providing discriminatory access for the interconnection of large loads to the 
interstate transmission system.  Current interconnection processes can take significantly longer 
than data center project development timelines.   
If the Commission goes forward with the proposed ANOPR, it should focus on 
expediting interconnection of proven large load projects with demonstrated site control, 
committed customers, applicable permits, executed service agreements and/or project financing.  
This approach is consistent with the fourth principle for reform in the proposed ANOPR about 
standardized study deposits, readiness requirements, withdrawal penalties and other 
commitments and financial penalties to deter speculative projects.  Any rules adopted by the 
Commission should prioritize projects that are ready for interconnection and reduce the 
incentives for speculative, non-viable projects.  As part of this process, the Commission should 
consider firm timelines for studies and approvals for such projects that are ready for 
interconnection, similar to generator interconnection reforms under Order No. 2023. 
The Commission should also focus on transparency and coordination for large load 
interconnection.  The current process often lacks transparency into load interconnection queues 
and the study process.  Switch encourages coordination between transmission providers and 
regional planning entities to avoid duplicative studies and delays.  If the Commission decides to 
3 See Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Docket No. RM26-4-000, Comments of 
the Data Center Coalition (filed Nov. 21, 2025). 

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
proceed with the proposed ANOPR, it should require transmission providers to publish queue 
status, study assumptions, and cost estimates for large load interconnections.   
II.
Conclusion 
Switch respectfully requests that the Commission consider these comments and looks 
forward to working with the Commission and industry stakeholders in addressing these issues. 
Respectfully submitted, 
_______/s/___________
Alise Porto 
SVP of Energy and Sustainability 
Switch, Ltd. 
Regulatory@switch.com
