--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
 
 
November 20, 2025  
 
RE: Department of Energy proposed Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANOPR) 
under Section 403 of the Department of Energy Organization Act for consideration and 
final action by FERC, Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission 
System, Notice Granting Extension of Time, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (issued Nov. 7, 
2025). 
 
Submitted By: Hailey Miller, Digital Power Network, An Affiliate of The Digital Chamber 
 
The Digital Power Network (DPN) is the largest coalition of Bitcoin miners and digital 
infrastructure leaders in the United States, representing over 85% of domestic Bitcoin hash 
rate. DPN advocates for policies that promote energy innovation, grid resilience, economic 
development, and the strategic role of digital assets in the 21st-century economy. 
 
DPN appreciates the opportunity to provide information on Docket No. RM26-4-000 
regarding accelerating the permitting for flexible digital infrastructure. As large load demand 
rises and interconnection queues are constrained, FERC’s support for expediting the 
integration of flexible loads is critical to bolster the nation’s power systems.  
 
 
Section V. Principles for Reform:  
 
18. First, to avoid even arguably affecting the States’ jurisdiction over generation 
facilities, facilities used in local distribution or only for the transmission of electric 
energy in intrastate commerce, or transmissions consumed by the transmitter, the 
Commission’s jurisdiction should be limited to interconnections directly to transmission 
facilities, consistent with the Commission’s seven-factor test.  
 
The letter cites DOE authority that could be challenged, especially if rulemaking lacks clear 
statutory grounding. A deeper legal analysis is needed to assess the strength of DOE’s 
position. The National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners (NARUC) passed a 
resolution urging FERC to resist the Department of Energy’s push to give itself jurisdiction 
over large loads interconnecting with the grid — an authority historically belonging to state 
regulators.1 The NARUC resolution signals that state regulators nationwide are opposed to 
the Department of Energy's effort to enable FERC to supplant states' authority over large 
load interconnections. This could lead to extended legal battles over jurisdictional issues 
and could further add to the interconnection timelines for large loads and there is a risk of 
seeing more data center tariffs nationwide. 
 
 
1 https://pubs.naruc.org/pub/2C526A94-D533-BE0A-336A-178A366C7A91 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
 
 
19. Second, consistent with the Commission’s pro forma LGIP and LGIA, the reforms 
should only apply to new loads greater than 20 MW and, for hybrid facilities, where the 
load is greater than 20 MW. We seek comment on alternative thresholds, including 
whether such a threshold is necessary at all.  
 
While, in most cases, 20 MW is an adequate baseline threshold for this rule, in certain 
cases, it should expand to facilities below 20 MW given that hydro facilities can often fall 
under this capacity limit. By still setting the threshold at 20 MW but allowing exceptions for 
certain smaller facilities, it will give developers the opportunity to start-up, operate, and then 
expand.  
 
20. Third, to the extent practicable, load and hybrid facilities should be studied together 
with generating facilities. Such an approach will allow for efficient siting of loads and 
generating facilities and thereby minimize the need for costly network upgrades. For 
example, siting a large load near or at the same point of interconnection as a new 
generating facility could reduce the network upgrades needed to interconnect only the 
load or only the generating facility.  
 
This point is clearly supported by what’s already occurring with AI companies investing to re-
energize idled capacity (e.g., nuclear sites) and locating data centers close-by. Load studies 
do not need to be reviewed in a vacuum like they are now.  
 
21. Fourth, like generating facilities, load and hybrid facilities should be subject to 
standardized study deposits, readiness requirements, and withdrawal penalties. These 
provisions deter speculative projects and provide transmission providers with more 
useful information to more accurately forecast demand on their systems. We seek 
comment on the extent to which the existing study deposits, readiness requirements, 
and withdrawal penalties can be adopted. We also seek comment on whether additional 
commitments or financial penalties would be appropriate.  
Study deposits would assist in solving the problem of entities flooding utilities with 
requests for load. Utilities are not capable of deciphering real market participants or 
developers fishing projects to others.  
 
The deposit needs to be non-trivial, somewhat of a deterrent but not excessive. For example, 
in 2025, Texas enacted SB 6 which includes standards that “must set a flat study fee of at 
least $100,000 to be paid to the interconnecting electric utility or municipally owned utility 
for initial transmission screening studies for large loads” (§ 37.0561(f)). Given that data 
centers are not subject to paying these deposits now, these payments should be credited 
back over the first year of the contract. This method provides clarity to the utilities and 
financial stability to the developers.  
 
22. Fifth, hybrid facilities should be studied based on the amount of injection and / or 
withdrawal rights requested. For example, a hybrid facility consisting of a 500 MW load 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
 
 
and a 600 MW generating facility may seek no withdrawal rights and 100MW of injection 
rights. This provides incentives for co-location with new generation facilities and ensures 
efficient buildout of the transmission system.  
 
Hybrid facilities need to have the ability for future revisions to their injection and / or 
withdrawal rights as the transmission system capacity increases / improves. This way a 
hybrid facility has future growth opportunity in either direction — injection / withdrawal.  
 
23. Sixth, any hybrid interconnection shall be required to install the system protection 
facilities necessary to prevent unauthorized injections or withdrawals that exceed the 
respective rights. We seek comment on whether other operational limitations should be 
considered. We also seek comment on the minimum technical requirements for such 
system protection facilities, whether a hybrid interconnection customer should be 
subject to penalties for unauthorized injections or withdrawals, how any such penalties 
should be designed, and how such penalties should be allocated to other transmission 
customers.  
 
Hybrid facilities are already required to control their load profile. Typically, any non-
compliance will involve penalties. This is what occurs in TVA for loads that are supposed to 
be strictly off-peak but happen to operate during the peak hours — results in a stiff penalty 
charge.  
 
A buffer percentage to the high side of the submitted load would help too because the 
facility is paying for the load submitted regardless of whether it is utilized. If the facility 
cannot operate up to the submitted load, then the hybrid facility incurs additional cost due 
to not being able to monetize the load by staying under the cap (load submitted).  
 
When energy generation or data centers are seeking to interconnect to the bulk power 
system, they are subject to deliverability studies, adding additional time to the 
interconnection process. However, if a new classification of non-firm loads and backup 
generation is to be established through this ruling, then these loads should be excluded 
from the deliverability study requirement as this studies intention is to ensure connection to 
the grid is firm.  
 
Additionally, with this new classification of load types, FERC should also require that flexible 
loads have non-firm withdrawal rights, ensuring that excess load on the grid can be 
monetized during period of low demand if there is a demand from non-firm data centers to 
consume additional power.  
 
24. Seventh, the interconnection study of large loads that agree to be curtailable and 
hybrid facilities that agree to be curtailable and dispatchable should be expedited. The 
system operator’s ability to control such facilities through curtailment and / or dispatch 
must be sufficient for the system operator to integrate the facility into both operations 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
 
 
and system planning. This ensures the timely and orderly addition of large loads to the 
transmission system in a safe, reliable, and non-discriminatory manner. We seek 
comment on whether this should be accomplished through a serial interconnection study 
process or by some other means. We also seek comment on appropriate deadlines for 
such an expedited study process, including whether such studies can be completed in 
60 days.  
 
This reform is essential. There also needs to be an even higher priority for company 
submissions that have proven their ability to curtail / dispatched at their facilities vs. new 
entries.  
 
25. Eighth, load and hybrid facilities should be responsible for 100% of the network 
upgrades that they are assigned through the interconnection studies. We seek comment 
on whether such costs should be offset through a crediting mechanism and, if so, over 
how many years.  
 
This is already being done, but the upgrade costs need to be credited back to the facility 
over the course the power purchase agreement (PPA) length. The maximum duration for 
issuing the credit should be 50% of the PPA length. The only concern is who owns the 
infrastructure during the period to claim potential tax credits or other incentives that may 
attribute to the upgrades.  
 
26. Ninth, to the extent the interconnection customer is not the transmission owner, the 
interconnection customer shall be afforded the same (or equivalent) option to build as 
currently provided to generator interconnection customers.  
 
This prevents the transmission owner from having a monopoly on construction that could 
delay projects or raise costs. It aligns rights across different types of interconnection 
customers so everyone has a viable path to get facilities built on time, so long as reliability 
and standards are met. 
 
27. Tenth, an existing generating facility that seeks to enter a partial suspension to serve 
a new load at the same location must go through a system support resource (SSR) / 
reliability must run (RMR) type study. The study must consider system conditions, 
including forecasted load growth, at least three years after the proposed suspension 
date. The partial suspension can only proceed after any network upgrades needed to 
ensure reliability are placed into service. Any such network upgrades shall be the 
responsibility of the generating facility. We invite comments on whether and how 
resource adequacy should be considered in the SSR / RMR type study.  
 
No comment.  
 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
 
 
28. Eleventh, utilities serving large loads, including those at hybrid facilities, should be 
responsible for transmission service based on their withdrawal rights, as that value 
amount reflects the quantity of capacity and energy that is being transmitted across the 
transmission system to the load.  
 
No comment.  
 
29. Twelfth, utilities serving large loads, including those at hybrid facilities, should be 
responsible for ancillary services based on peak demand, without consideration of any 
co-located generation. Any co-located generating facilities will similarly be fully 
compensated for the provision of ancillary services.  
 
Utilities should be responsible and pass through the services with zero fees or mark-ups; 
however, there should be an option for the hybrid facility to take on the responsibilities for 
ancillary services. The option covers the point of utilities not being well positioned or have 
the knowledge to implement such services without the hybrid facility taking on the cost 
burden that the utility will attempt to (and will) pass on.  
 
30. Thirteenth, there must be a plan to implement these proposed reforms. We seek 
comment on appropriate transition plans, including the treatment of large load 
interconnections that are already being studied for interconnection.  
 
For large loads already undergoing the study process, if their current process will take more 
than 60 days, they should be given the option to opt into the expedited interconnection 
study queue as first in line. To ensure proper deployment and communication with the 
system operators and utilities, FERC must draft a plan outlining the rollout logistics and 
clarifying the authority of each entity.  
 
31. Fourteenth, utilities serving large loads must meet all applicable NERC reliability 
standards and OATT provisions. Utilities and we must be prepared to revise large load 
interconnection procedures and agreements, as necessary. NERC should review its 
reliability standards to determine if new registration categories or new or modified 
reliability standards are required to ensure reliability of the BES.  
 
NERC should have a flexible load category. Reliability standards should emphasize grid 
resilience on the supply side and be transparent, achievable, market-based solutions on the 
demand side.  
 
NERC may impose stricter reliability standards on large loads, especially if flexibility is not 
adequately demonstrated, increasing compliance burdens. Conversations at these forums 
are already focusing on how to slow down the interconnection of data centers to match 
more the speed of infrastructure construction and generation buildout, instead of 
brainstorming creative ways to speed up these process to the extent they can. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
 
 
 
32. This proposal is not intended in any way to discourage public utilities from making 
filings to address these and similar issues under FPA section 205.  
 
No comment.  
 
 
Additional Comments 
 
Slow Rule-to-Filing Process 
 
Grid operator filings in response to DOE or FERC rules can take significant time. Any rule 
must be time-bound and specific to avoid delays in implementation. I.e. ISO/RTOs were 
making compliance filing on FERC order 2023 as late as May of 2025 and it is compliance 
with order is expected as late as 2026-2027. 
 
State-Level Pushback 
 
States may respond with stricter interconnection requirements or new tariffs targeting data 
centers and large flexible loads, potentially complicating deployment. As seen with the 
NARUC letter 
 
Transmission Owner (TO) Resistance  
 
If rules require compliance filings, TOs may oppose unless stakeholder approval is 
mandated. This could slow or dilute rule effectiveness. Further, there should be fines 
imposed or some accountability mechanism for TO’s and TSPs to complete the studies and 
their part of the process on time. Delay’s caused by TO’s is one of the biggest slower of 
things and could add great gains in time if compliance from them can be ensured by fines 
etc. At present, they work on good faith and no accountability model. 
 
Next Steps:  
1. There must be a clear pathway to interconnect non-firm, flexible large load- SPP is 
already considering a process called PALS so examples exists. 
2. Expand coordination with NERC and reliability entities to ensure transparent, 
achievable performance criteria for fast-acting interruptible load. 
3. Modernize cost allocation rules and utility cost recovery. 
4. More education around how flexible large load and support the grid and have 
avenues that allow flexible large load customers like bitcoin miners to work directly 
with utilities and in the wholesale market. There could be significant financial uplift 
from reduced O&M spend, reduced transmission development, and uplift on energy 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
 
 
revenues by adding BTC mining into the reliability paradigm of the utility and/or 
independent BA. if DOE were to back this through analysis related to resource 
planning, it would be very substantial to advancing cause for bitcoin mining. 
 
