--- PAGE 1 ---
589841566 
1 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
 
REPLY COMMENTS OF  
THE CALIFORNIA PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION 
 
The California Public Utilities Commission and the People of the State of 
California (“CPUC”) submit these Reply Comments in response to the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission’s (“FERC” or “Commission”) October 27, 2025, Notice Inviting 
Comments on the Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) on large load 
interconnection.1 
The CPUC appreciates the opportunity to comment and express support for the 
following issues identified in Initial Comments by industry and regulatory stakeholders.  
Given the large volume of Initial Comments, the CPUC files these Reply Comments to 
briefly highlight key issues raised for the Commission’s consideration.  In its Initial 
Comments, the CPUC raised that the proposed rulemaking, as described in the ANOPR, 
extends beyond FERC’s jurisdictional authority.  Many parties raised similar concerns, 
 
1 To distinguish load interconnection from generator interconnection, California refers to interconnection 
of load as “energization.”  Use of the term energization in these Reply Comments, unless otherwise 
stated, is synonymous with “load interconnection.” 

--- PAGE 2 ---
589841566 
2 
and in these Reply Comments, the CPUC points the Commission to specific comments 
that the CPUC believes helpfully explain the issues. 
If the Commission nonetheless moves forward, parties also raised helpful points 
regarding the need for flexibility and deference to states within their domains and made 
several proposals that would improve transparency in the large load energization process. 
The CPUC adopts further positions on flexibility and transparency in response to these 
comments, and supports methodologies proposed by other parties to effectively reach 
those goals.  
Finally, given the broad range of megawatt (“MW”) thresholds for data centers 
expressed by parties across the nation, the CPUC shifts its position toward a higher 
threshold and supports considering non-MW factors to define the data center customer 
class.  
I. 
JURISDICTION 
A. 
The ANOPR is Inconsistent with FERC and Court Precedent 
and Proposes Jurisdiction in Excess of the Authority Under the 
Federal Power Act  
In its Initial Comments, the CPUC addressed why the proposed rulemaking, as 
described in the ANOPR, would extend beyond FERC’s jurisdiction and undermine the 
system of cooperative federalism set forth in the Federal Power Act and amendments in 
the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (“FPA”).  Many organizations, states, and industry 
participants expressed similar jurisdictional concerns and advocated for the Commission 
to adhere to the limits imposed by Congress on federal agencies.  The CPUC agrees with 
these entities and specifically identifies the following portions of Initial Comments that 

--- PAGE 3 ---
589841566 
3 
the CPUC believes clearly explain several of the jurisdictional issues raised by the 
ANOPR. 
As discussed by the Organization of MISO States (“OMS”), the Commission’s 
own analysis acknowledges the limits on its authority: “[t]he Commission recently 
recognized the limits of its jurisdiction by rejecting Tri-State’s proposed High Impact 
Load Agreement (‘HILA’).  The Commission found that it would impermissibly intrude 
on state-regulated retail rate matters by dictating specific terms and conditions of service 
between utilities and their end-use customers.”2 
And as explained by California investor-owned utility Pacific Gas and Electric 
Company (“PG&E”), the ANOPR is misaligned with the Commission’s own precedent 
on the balance between state and federal jurisdiction.  PG&E’s “Rule 30” large load 
energization application is before the CPUC.3 PG&E notes the Commission determined 
earlier this year that states have the authority to determine:  
1. 
Which entities are legally permitted to provide electricity to retail 
customers in co-location arrangements.  
2. 
How the wholesale costs of providing electricity to those retail 
customers are recovered through retail rates.  That is true 
irrespective of where the load interconnects (i.e., to the distribution 
system, the transmission system, or the generator itself).  
3. 
Their generation resource mix, including through their siting 
authority (meaning co-located load is a question of state law).4 
 
 
 
2 OMS Initial Comments at 5.  
3 CPUC Application No. 24-11-007. 
4 PG&E Opening Comments at 9.  

--- PAGE 4 ---
589841566 
4 
The ANOPR contradicts the Commission’s recent orders and claims jurisdiction 
over transactions for electrons that never enter the interstate market.  Under Commission 
precedent, as quoted by PG&E:  
the Commission has exclusive authority over the rates, terms, and 
conditions for the sales from generating resources used to serve co-located 
loads, as well as the practices directly affecting such sales, provided that 
they are sales for resale in interstate commerce.  If they are not sales for 
resale—that is, if they are made directly to the end-use consumer—or if 
they are not in interstate commerce then the co-located generator’s sales are 
under state jurisdiction.5 
 
The CPUC agrees.  The Commission and the states have separate zones of 
exclusive jurisdiction.  Critically, and key to the analysis here, the states retain authority 
over matters not expressly granted to the Commission under the FPA.6 
In its Initial Comments, the CPUC explained why the FPA does not provide FERC 
jurisdiction over all things tangential to the transmission system or that have incidental 
impact on wholesale electric rates.  The Solar Energy Industry Association’s (“SEIA’s”) 
helpful analysis of the FPA similarly demonstrated that Congress could not have intended 
to bring within FERC’s jurisdiction any policy or action that may impact wholesale rates, 
as “markets in just about everything—the whole economy, as it were” can influence 
demand.7 Instead, the U.S.  Supreme Court has adopted a “common-sense construction of 
the FPA's language, limiting FERC's ‘affecting’ jurisdiction to rules or practices that 
 
5 PG&E Opening Comments at 9-10. 
6 PG&E Opening Comments at 10.  
7 SEIA Comments at 7. (FERC v. Elec. Power Supply Ass'n, 577 U.S. 260, 277, 136 S. Ct. 760, 774, 193 
L. Ed. 2d 661 (2016), as revised (Jan. 28, 2016).) 

--- PAGE 5 ---
589841566 
5 
‘directly affect the [wholesale] rate.’”8  Applying that analysis to the present large load 
energization issue, retail loads are not direct participants in wholesale markets.9  Rather, 
they are retail end-use customers whose operations may indirectly influence wholesale 
prices by contributing to demand.10 
This type of indirect impact is beyond the scope of the Commission’s jurisdiction 
under the Federal Power Act.11  Further still, even if the proposals in this ANOPR do not 
directly impinge on the states’ authority over retail sales of electricity, that does not itself 
establish federal authority – “the Commission must clearly articulate how exercising 
jurisdiction over large load interconnections is consistent with, but not derivative of, its 
authority over wholesale transactions and transmission in interstate commerce.”12 
The National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners (“NARUC”) and 
Edison Electric Institute (“EEI”) comments raised another jurisdictional concern.  As 
NARUC pointed out in its comments, FPA section 212(h) prohibits FERC from directing 
the provision of transmission directly to end users (retail wheeling).13  The FPA 
reservation of jurisdiction over retail rates and services to the states includes retail load 
energization.14  Similarly, EEI comments analyzed FPA section 212(h) and demonstrated 
 
8 Id.  
9 SEIA Comments at 7.  
10 Id.  
11 Id.  
12 Id.  
13 NARUC Initial Comments at 4. 
14 Id.  

--- PAGE 6 ---
589841566 
6 
Congress prohibited the Commission “from ordering retail transmission service against 
the wishes of a state, if the state prohibits wheeling to an ultimate consumer.”15  The 
Commission in Order No. 888 recognized this as a barrier to ordering a retail customer to 
take service under a FERC-jurisdictional tariff.16 
As NARUC’s comments explained, state commissions are the venue for retail end-
use customers to redress their rights when directly affected by the services of the electric 
supplier.17  State jurisdiction over retail load allows those customers to seek recourse 
from state regulators’ decisions by participating in state proceedings and through electing 
or influencing the appointment of state regulators.18  The CPUC strongly agrees with 
NARUC that the federal government and the states working together under the tradition 
of cooperative federalism will lead to the most optimal solutions.19  
In its comments, EEI also explained the critical point that the state regulatory 
authority over retail sales is a power recognized by the same statutory provision that 
authorizes the Commission’s transmission jurisdiction.20  16 U.S.C. § 824(b) gives the 
Commission jurisdiction over “transmission of electric energy,” but recognizes state 
jurisdiction over “any ... sale of electric energy” other than “sale of electric energy at 
 
15 EEI Comments at 27-28. 
16 Id.  
17 Id. at 6.  
18 Id. at 6.  
19 Id.  
20 EEI Comments at 26.  

--- PAGE 7 ---
589841566 
7 
wholesale.” The terms of large load energization are not a sale of electric energy at 
wholesale and therefore fall into the “any other” category reserved for the states.  
Further, EEI correctly raised that in Order 888, the Commission found that in all 
cases, retail service involves state jurisdiction even if no distribution facility is actually 
used.21  The Commission concluded that requiring the unbundling of retail transmission 
and generation would raise “difficult jurisdictional issues.”22  A federal order claiming 
jurisdiction over all retail transmission would have even greater implications for the 
states’ regulation of retail sales.23  Thus, even if a retail large load customer connects 
directly to the transmission system, Commission precedent dictates that interconnection 
to a distribution facility is not required for a transaction to be retail service under state 
jurisdiction.24  
B. 
A Shift in Jurisdiction Would Leave Regulatory Gaps and Cause 
Delays 
In its Initial Comments, the CPUC focused on the legal issues with jurisdiction 
that may be invoked in this rulemaking.  In these Reply Comments, the CPUC joins 
others in the practical concerns and unintended downstream impacts of a jurisdictional 
shift.  
Many parties helpfully noted the unintended consequences of hashing out issues of 
jurisdiction at a time when speed is the goal.  As explained by the Organization of PJM 
 
21 EEI Comments at 26.  
22 Id.  
23 Id.  
24 Id.  

--- PAGE 8 ---
589841566 
8 
States, Inc. (“OPSI”), “…expansion in Federal jurisdiction would lead to confusion and 
likely conflict between federal regulation and state-approved tariffs.”25  Research of 
electrical utilities has found that, consistent with other industries, “perceived regulatory 
instability reduces new investment and undermines policy goals.”26 
As further pointed out by OMS, the ANOPR presents a slippery slope that could 
cause a massive shift from established operations and force retail unbundling.  This 
would cause further uncertainty and delay, as related processes would need to be 
reconsidered to address resulting jurisdictional and operational changes, gaps, and 
misalignment of regulatory authority.  To quote OMS: 
FERC has consistently recognized, including in Order Nos. 2003 and 2023, 
that interconnection service is distinct from transmission service.  Yet 
under the ANOPR’s reasoning, the act of connecting a large retail customer 
directly to transmission facilities could transform that retail delivery into a 
FERC-jurisdictional wholesale transaction – redefining distribution 
facilities and costs as transmission assets, shifting oversight of distribution 
expansion, maintenance, and rate recovery from state commissions to 
FERC. 
 
The ANOPR states that is not the intent; however, if it occurs functionally, 
many related processes (and regulatory constructs or arrangements) would 
need to be reconsidered to address resulting jurisdictional and operational 
changes, gaps, and misalignment of regulatory authority.  If this 
reclassification of large load occurs, it will effectively compel states to 
unbundle retail service – a massive structural change with significant 
implications for ratepayers.27  
 
 
25 OPSI Initial Comments at 9-10.  
26 “The Effect of Regulatory Uncertainty on Investment: Evidence from Renewable Energy Generation,” 
Kira R. Fabrizio, Journal of Law, Economics, & Organization, Vol. 29, No. 4 (August 2013), at 765-798. 
https://www.jstor.org/stable/23487259 
27 OMS Initial Comments at 7. 

--- PAGE 9 ---
589841566 
9 
OMS further outlined the impacts of such a jurisdictional shift:  
1. 
existing customers would not be able to benefit from 
spreading a utility’s generation and distribution fixed costs 
over additional sales if large loads are not subject to an 
incumbent utility’s retail tariff provisions;  
2. 
the cost to procure sufficient capacity to serve the new 
system load would likely be socialized and may increase 
the potential for stranded costs if load does not materialize 
as expected;  
3. 
transmission congestion patterns may shift abruptly and 
significantly, depending on the size of the large load, 
thereby creating new network topology challenges and 
increased congestion costs;  
4. 
existing customers could experience increased 
transmission costs through additional reliability projects; 
and  
5. 
any reliance on the grid for backup energy would increase 
the need for system capacity, energy, and ancillary services 
resulting in additional downstream costs for retail 
ratepayers.28 
Finally, as OMS pointed out, impingement on states’ jurisdictional authority may 
create a regulatory gap where no entity is accountable for reliability or determination of 
prudence. 
The Commission should include clear provisions ensuring that this 
interconnection process does not circumvent state-jurisdictional cost 
recovery mechanisms or retail service obligations.  If the Commission were 
to override or bypass these structures, it would effectively separate 
interconnection from service responsibility, creating a regulatory gap where 
no entity is clearly accountable for maintaining reliability or ensuring costs 
are prudently assigned or recovered.29 
 
28 OMS Initial Comments at 8.  
29 OMS Initial Comments at 12. 

--- PAGE 10 ---
589841566 
10 
The National Conference of State Legislatures (“NCSL”) also effectively 
highlighted the uncertainty of responsibility by raising the following questions:  
1. 
Who bears responsibility for managing and mitigating the ensuing 
reliability concerns? 
2. 
Who is responsible for bearing the costs of increased power 
demand? 
3. 
Which entity holds operational authority for determining customer 
prioritization during system restoration efforts?30 
The ANOPR raises these and many other questions that the Commission would 
need sufficient time to address.  Therefore, either this process would slow energization of 
large load and extend the timeline for bringing AI data centers online, or these questions 
would go unaddressed, resulting in unreasonable cost-shifting and a less reliable electric 
grid for all. 
C. 
Sufficient Time is Necessary to Address an Issue of this 
Importance 
As explained above, the CPUC and many others have raised significant 
jurisdictional concerns with the proposed rulemaking.  But if it is to move forward, it is 
of significant interest across the nation and should not be rushed toward final action by 
April 2026.  Instead, this ANOPR should be used to refine the proposals and prompts for 
a subsequent Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“NOPR”), providing sufficient time for 
input from utilities, grid operators, customers, and other stakeholder groups. 
The Commission is required to “consider and take final action on any proposal 
made by the Secretary . . . in an expeditious manner in accordance with such reasonable 
 
30 NCSL Comments at 2.  

--- PAGE 11 ---
589841566 
11 
time limits as may be set by the Secretary for the completion of action by the 
Commission on any such proposal.”31  To echo PJM Transmission Owners’ Opening 
Comments, a “reasonable” time “must allow for the required rulemaking procedures set 
forth in the APA, including a sufficiently specific NOPR and opportunity for meaningful 
comment. …[A]n ANOPR is a precursor to the rulemaking process further support that 
any forthcoming rulemaking must adhere to typical rulemaking requirements.” 32  The 
time limit set in this FERC Docket is inconsistent with the full rulemaking process and is 
not “reasonable” within the meaning of 42 U.S.C. § 7173(b). 
Large load energization is an issue of significant nationwide importance, and 
while the CPUC is aligned on the goal of timely energization, sufficient time is needed to 
develop transparent, effective, and durable rules.  As pointed out by EEI, “[i]n any 
Commission rulemaking effort, the amount of time needed for transition and 
implementation processes necessarily depends on the nature of the Final Rule.  The 
Commission should ensure an appropriate transition period to implement any new rule. 
We can only provide realistic implementation feedback in response to a NOPR rather 
than an abbreviated ANOPR.” 33 
Further, the National Association of Utility Consumer Advocates (“NASUCA”) 
asserts, and the CPUC agrees, that the Principles for Reform expressed in the ANOPR are 
not actual reforms, but are the principles that actual reforms could incorporate.  
 
31 42 U.S.C. § 7173(b) (emphasis added). 
32 PJM TO Comments at 38-40.  
33 EEI Comments at 36-37. 

--- PAGE 12 ---
589841566 
12 
NASUCA also notes that a number of the principles create confusion with inconsistent 
language and ambiguities.  For these reasons, NASUCA concludes that more time is 
needed in this docket.  “Given the magnitude of the request and the importance of the 
issues implicated by that request, it would be patently unreasonable and bad public policy 
for FERC to use an expedited process to expand its jurisdiction.”34 
II. 
FLEXIBILITY  
At the outset, the CPUC does not agree that the FPA has granted the Commission 
regulatory authority to set rules over the terms and conditions of retail load energization. 
However, should the Commission nonetheless move forward with making such rules, a 
flexible application of any rule would likely be most effective.  The CPUC echoes 
parties’ comments that flexibility and deference to states within their domains would 
benefit ratepayers, utilities, and industry alike.  Otherwise, the ANOPR’s efforts may be 
counterproductive to the mutual goal of promptly energizing AI data centers.35  
A. 
Stability Benefits Markets and Investment in Infrastructure  
Large economic investments needed for our electric grid and AI development 
goals are best served by stability of investors’ expectations and reliability of economic 
returns.  Regulatory stability is one critical element of creating fertile conditions for 
large-scale investment.  
Same as EEI, the CPUC wishes to “underscore the importance of providing a 
clear signal to market participants that the progress they have made to bring large load 
 
34 NASUCA Initial Comments at 10-11. 
35 EEI Comments at 22. 

--- PAGE 13 ---
589841566 
13 
customers onto the system will not be undermined.  Across the country, there are 
countless large load customers who are already interconnected to the transmission system 
or are in various stages of working through the process to interconnect.”36  This ANOPR 
comes at a time when many utilities, states, and industry customers have already 
established processes and expectations for large load energization.  
B. 
Less Intervention Will Lead to More Progress 
The CPUC also agrees with EEI that some of the ANOPR’s efforts may be 
counterproductive to the mutual goal of promptly energizing AI data centers.37  Like EEI, 
the CPUC supports the goal of the Administration, Department of Energy, and the 
Commission to advance the fair and rapid energization of large loads.38 However, these 
goals can best be achieved without reshuffling the deck and “calling into question the 
way in which states and the Commission have traditionally regulated bundled retail 
service and without launching a cumbersome new regulatory effort that is likely to slow, 
not speed, progress.”39  
If the proposed rulemaking takes the shape of a sweeping one-size fits all solution, 
it will counterproductive.  As well-stated by Duke Energy (“Duke”):  
To the extent FERC can identify specific and concrete problems within its 
statutory authority, FERC should narrowly tailor any proposed reforms to 
solving those specific problems.  To attempt through this rulemaking 
proceeding to solve for theoretical problems, edge case hypotheticals, or 
problems beyond FERC’s statutory purview will introduce a quagmire of 
 
36 EEI Comments at 4. 
37 EEI Comments at 22. 
38 Id.  
39 Id.  

--- PAGE 14 ---
589841566 
14 
jurisdictional issues and disputes, thorny implementation details, 
unintended consequences, and lengthy, litigious compliance processes that 
would impede more timely interconnection of large load customers. Any 
reforms that FERC pursues must be catalysts, not quicksand.40 
 
C. 
Cooperative Federalism 
The CPUC joins other parties in encouraging the Commission to build on the 
progress and experience that has already been developed by the states in energizing large 
load and data centers currently serving the country. 
The CPUC agrees with the cooperative federalism approach proposed by OMS of 
“developing voluntary best practices with states to improve interconnection efficiency, 
requiring load interconnection processes that enhance transparency, and other novel 
approaches” necessary at a particular moment.41  This would dovetail with and preserve 
state authority and established regulatory frameworks on state-jurisdictional issues that 
ensure reliability, resource adequacy, and affordability.42 
D. 
Guidelines Instead of Fixed Rules 
Given state and regional differences and quickly evolving technology and markets, 
flexible guidelines would be more effective than cumbersome rules. 
The CPUC shares EEI’s urging to the Commission to avoid being overly 
prescriptive and to preserve contracting flexibility.43  As EEI stated, “[l]arge load 
customers are not uniform; their load characteristics may vary widely depending on the 
 
40 Duke Comments at 2.  
41 OMS Initial Comments at 8.  
42 Id.  
43 EEI Comments at 20. 

--- PAGE 15 ---
589841566 
15 
end-use and evolve over time.”44  Guidelines establishing the type of technical 
information large load customers need to provide prior to initiating an energization 
request will improve infrastructure planning.45 
The CPUC also agrees, as pointed out by Meta, that overspecification would be 
counterproductive: “Issuing a detailed, standard rule that fails to account for the diversity 
in the economic landscape could slow down successful interconnection processes and 
undermine the Commission’s goal of bringing more data centers online faster and in a 
more orderly manner.”46 
Similarly, as stated by EEI, large load energization is a changing landscape: “Any 
standardized procedures dealing with large load interconnection, including any efforts to 
address the costs of studying these customers, must be flexible enough to account for the 
evolving understanding of just what is necessary to integrate these customers to the 
grid.”47  The State of California Department of Water Resources (“DWR”) encouraged 
that the Final Rule “adopt principles that guide the RTOs in their treatment of large load 
interconnections—but each RTO should be given the latitude to adopt a program that 
works best for its region.”48  The CPUC agrees. 
 
44 Id.  
45 Id.  
46 Meta Comments at 3.  
47 EEI Comments at 21. 
48 DWR Comments at 9. 

--- PAGE 16 ---
589841566 
16 
Finally, quoting the California Independent System Operator (“CAISO”), 
flexibility is best for reaching our mutual goals:49  
Having the flexibility to align any large load processes with reforms 
already accepted and implemented by transmission providers in close 
coordination with their State policymakers will further the goals of the 
ANOPR.  Large load interconnection studies may require specific 
mechanisms for transmission owners experienced in conducting such 
studies, as well as mechanisms to avoid the State-jurisdictional concerns 
that led to the Commission’s rejecting the rules proposed in Tri-State.  This 
flexibility will facilitate a faster compliance process to help large loads 
interconnect as soon as possible and with greater regulatory certainty.50 
III. 
TRANSPARENCY 
Again, the CPUC does not agree that the FPA has granted the Commission 
regulatory authority over the terms and conditions of retail load energization.  However, 
should the Commission move forward with making such rules, the CPUC echoes and 
supports a number of proposals from the Initial Comments, such as public posting of 
interconnection requests and cost responsibility determinations, that would improve 
transparency in the large load energization process.  Transparency would benefit the 
development and fairness of load energization, to the benefit of businesses and ratepayers 
alike.  The CPUC flags the following transparency issues relevant to large load 
energization: (A) queue transparency, (B) access for Tribal governments through process 
and capacity support, (C) data for load and capacity forecasting, (D) clarity of 
methodology for cost causation and allocation, and (E) standard definition of parameters 
that serve as inputs to said methodology (e.g., the definition of a “network upgrade”).  
 
49 CAISO Initial Comments at 8. 
50 Id.  

--- PAGE 17 ---
589841566 
17 
A. 
Queue Transparency 
Queue transparency is necessary to reduce regulatory burden, ease energization, 
and ensure system reliability.  The CPUC supports implementing safeguards as 
articulated by OMS, to prevent “load shopping” among transmission providers and 
“queue gaming” by large-load customers with significant financial resources.51  
Queue transparency measures will help create accountability and prudent system 
planning.  As put forward by the Office of the Ohio Consumers’ Counsel (“OCC”), 
transparency measures “are necessary to protect residential consumers from bearing the 
costs of overbuilt transmission infrastructure resulting from inaccurate or inflated demand 
projections.”52  Reporting requirements should include reporting of queue attrition rates 
and coordination with state regulators on load forecasting will further promote 
accountability and prudent system planning.53  Queue transparency would avoid 
duplicative load requests from being used to develop utility load forecasts, which then 
inform wholesale rates and transmission planning, and would improve the accuracy of 
these processes.54  
The CPUC also agrees with LS Power’s proposal that large load energization 
information should be published, similarly to generation interconnection queue 
information.55  The CPUC supports the several concrete requirements to bring about 
 
51 OMS Initial Comments at 12.  
52 OCC Comments at 8.  
53 Id.  
54 SEIA Initial Comments at 3.  
55 LS Power Initial Comments at 6-7.  

--- PAGE 18 ---
589841566 
18 
queue transparency suggested by the OCC.  The CPUC agrees with OCC’s proposal that 
the Commission should require public utilities, Regional Transmission Organizations and 
Independent System Operators to provide public posting of:  
1. 
All interconnection requests above [the MW threshold], including 
project type and location;  
2. 
Cost responsibility determinations and any resulting upgrades; and   
3. 
Annual reporting on the consumer cost impacts of large-load 
interconnections, associated transmission expansions, and the impact 
on electricity and capacity markets rates for consumers other than 
large loads.56  
B. 
Access for Tribal Governments  
The CPUC supports Tribal Nations’ requests for robust process inclusion and 
capacity support to enable full participation of impacted parties in both the rulemaking 
process and any large load energization process(es) it produces.  To quote the Chairman 
of the Confederated Tribes and Bands of the Yakima Nation, “Meaningful Consultation 
requires that we receive timely access to draft rule language, relevant data, and 
implementation plans, and that FERC provide adequate technical assistance and capacity 
support to enable full participation.”57  As stated by Alliance for Tribal Clean Energy, 
“[c]onsultation must occur before any approval of large load interconnections, include 
data transparency and cost-allocation safeguards, and provide mechanisms for Tribal 
review and mitigation of infrastructure impacts.”58 
 
56 OCC Comments at 3-4.  
57 Yakima Nation Initial Comments at 2.  
58 Alliance for Tribal Clean Energy Initial Comments at 4. 

--- PAGE 19 ---
589841566 
19 
C. 
Data for Load and Capacity Forecasting 
The CPUC also agrees with the Industrial Customer Organizations that data 
reporting would be useful for both a grid operator and industry perspective.  Quoting 
Industrial Customer Organizations, “[a]ccurate, transparent forecasting provides two 
critical benefits: it facilitates creative industry solutions and promotes accountability, 
both of which lead to a more efficient grid. … the Commission should consider 
developing rules that strengthen regional grid operators’ ability to develop accurate and 
transparent forecasts.  Providing transparency to industry stakeholders promotes an 
increase of innovative solutions and better regional transmission and resource adequacy 
planning.”59 
Each utility uses its own methods and assumptions for developing forecasts, and 
uniformity would improve accuracy.60  EIA stated that “establishing transparent 
forecasting assumptions and requiring standardized reporting by load-serving entities 
would improve the accuracy of the load forecasts that feed into transmission planning and 
market operations.”61  The CPUC supports robust reporting requirements, provided there 
is flexibility for regional variation and the ability to expand what data is gathered, and has 
taken steps to implement them under our own jurisdiction.  
 
59 Industrial Customer Orgs Joint Comments at 27.  
60 Id.  
61 Id.  

--- PAGE 20 ---
589841566 
20 
D. 
Clarity of Methodology for Cost Causation and Allocation 
Transparency in methodology for cost causation and cost allocation is critical to 
ensure the costs related to large load customers transmission network upgrades 
(“TNU’s”) are not unreasonably allocated in electricity rates to other customers. 
The CPUC supports the methodology proposed by the OCC that any proposed or 
final rule should:  
1. 
Prohibit the use of transmission credits, rate-based recovery, 
or regional cost allocation mechanisms for interstate 
transmission facilities built primarily to serve large private 
loads;  
2. 
Require verification that interconnection-driven network 
upgrade investments associated with large load 
interconnections are necessary for system reliability and/or 
deliverability of electricity to the general public before any 
costs are shifted to consumers other than large loads; and  
3. 
Ensure that transmission cost recovery aligns with current 
cost causation and cost allocation principles…62 
The CPUC believes that transparency and standardized criteria for cost allocation 
is a prerequisite for fair and accurate cost causation analysis.  As stated by SEIA, 
“[w]ithout clear methodologies, there is a risk that costs will be allocated inconsistently 
or that one class of interconnection customer (load or generation) will be unfairly 
disadvantaged.  The Commission should therefore require transmission providers to 
develop transparent, standardized criteria for determining cost responsibility in cases 
 
62 OCC Comments at 2. See also Illinois Commerce Commission v. FERC, 576 F.3d 470, 476 (7th Cir. 
2009) (ICC I). 

--- PAGE 21 ---
589841566 
21 
where both large load interconnections and generation projects contribute to the same 
transmission constraints.”63 
E. 
Standard Definition of the Parameters of Inputs into 
Methodology 
From the CPUC’s experience of working with large load energization in its Rule 
30 proceeding, a standard definition of inputs into any methodology would be needed in 
any final rule.  For example, PG&E raised what constitutes a “network upgrade” and 
asked several questions to that end, including inquiring (1) whether a network upgrade is 
limited to upgrades to the existing transmission system or whether it also include a new 
switchyard or substation needed to serve a large load or hybrid facility, and (2) whether 
lines connecting a new large load or hybrid facility “network upgrades.”64  Descriptive 
technical definitions of common terms with examples would smooth out processes and 
improve efficiency.  
IV. 
MEGAWATT THRESHOLD 
Based on the information received about the national data center market through 
the Initial Comment phase, the CPUC shifts its positions on the MW threshold towards a 
higher value and expands consideration of metrics for defining this large load customer 
class.  
Initial Comments evidenced a broad swathe of positions on the issue of a 
megawatt (“MW”) threshold to which a proposed rule would be applicable, with parties 
 
63 SEIA Initial Comments at 19.  
64 PG&E Opening Comments at 16. 

--- PAGE 22 ---
589841566 
22 
supporting threshold values as high as 300 MW and above.65  The diversity of views on 
the subject is indicative of regional differences, variation in rate structures, and weighs 
strongly in favor of local determinations.  The variation also suggests a moving target of 
what constitutes a ‘typical’ data center customer.  The Initial Comments indicate a 
forming consensus, however, on the downsides of such a threshold being set too low. 
CPUC acknowledges OMS’s assertion that “many other states have approved or 
are considering large load tariffs that all contemplate a range of 100-150 MW.”66  Duke 
Energy considers 100 MW to be the minimum threshold, advocating for a threshold of 
300 MW or above.  The CPUC’s experience with data centers in its region argues for the 
higher-end of the spectrum.  Per Industrial Customer Organizations, a 20 MW threshold 
risks “captur[ing] a significant number of manufacturers and other industrial and 
institutional entities.”67  Further, EEI states, “[a] lower threshold may also produce 
unintended detriments to economic development and reshoring activities.”68  
Given the variation in regional market development and situations, MW metrics 
alone may not be the defining feature of this type of load.  The CPUC agrees with the 
Ohio Office of Federal Energy Advocate (“Ohio FEA”) that data centers are a unique 
customer class, and identifying them based on their exceptional characteristics is not 
unduly discriminatory.69  A better approach is states regionally determining the 
 
65 Duke Energy Comments at 15. 
66 OMS Initial Comments at 12-13. 
67 Industrial Customer Organizations Joint Comments at 6. 
68 EEI Comments at 3. 
69 Ohio FEA Comments at 3. 

--- PAGE 23 ---
589841566 
23 
appropriate class identifiers based on the local data center market, such that local 
manufacturing and industrial businesses are protected and retail cost allocation can be 
fairly effectuated.  Failing that, if a final rule includes a nationwide MW threshold, the 
conservative next-best option is to set a threshold on the higher end of the spectrum of 
those proposed in Comments. 
V. 
CONCLUSION  
The CPUC appreciates insights from other parties and the opportunity to provide 
these Reply Comments for the Commission’s consideration.  The CPUC encourages the 
Commission to conduct this rulemaking in a way that embraces cooperative federalism, 
acknowledges the jurisdictional authority of the states, and helps to support the efforts 
underway in many states throughout the country engaging in rulemaking just like this one 
to ensure timely and efficient energizations, while protecting reliability, resource 
adequacy, and affordability for all ratepayers.  
December 5, 2025  
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Christine J. Hammond 
Christofer C. Nolan 
Inna Vinogradov 
 
/s/ Inna Vinogradov  
 
505 Van Ness Avenue 
San Francisco, CA 94102 
Email: inna.vinogradov@cpuc.ca.gov 
 
Attorney for the California Public 
Utilities Commission and the People of 
the State of California 
 
 

--- PAGE 24 ---
589841566 
24 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
 
I hereby certify that I have on this day caused a copy of the foregoing document to 
be served upon all parties designated on the official service list in this proceeding. 
Dated at San Francisco, California, this day 5th day of December 2025. 
 
/s/ 
Inna Vinogradov 
 
Inna Vinogradov 
