--- PAGE 1 ---
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System
)
Docket No. RM26-4-000
)
 
 
COMMENTS OF NATIONAL GRID PLC 
 
 
Pursuant to the Notice Inviting Comments on the proposed Advance Notice of Proposed 
Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) released by the Secretary of Energy (“Secretary”) on October 23, 2025, 
and docketed by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“Commission”) in this proceeding 
on October 27, 2025,1 National Grid Plc (“National Grid”) respectfully submits these initial 
comments on behalf of its electric transmission subsidiaries in New England and New York 
(each of which are subsidiaries of “National Grid USA”) and its competitive energy development 
corporation, National Grid Ventures (“NGV”), which develops, operates, and invests in energy 
projects, technologies, and partnerships to accelerate the development of our clean, fair, and 
affordable energy future.2 
I. 
OVERVIEW 
National Grid strongly supports the statement of the Secretary that “large loads, including 
AI data centers, served by public utilities must be able to connect to the transmission system in a 
timely, orderly, and non-discriminatory manner.”3  Large commercial and industrial loads, 
 
1  
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Notice Inviting Comments, Docket 
No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 27, 2025). 
2  
National Grid’s transmission owning affiliates regulated under the Federal Power Act (“FPA”) include 
Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation; New England Power Company; New England Electric Transmission 
Corporation; New England Hydro-Transmission Corporation; New England Hydro-Transmission Electric Company, 
Inc.; and Massachusetts Electric Company. 
3  
See Letter from Chris Wright, Secretary of Energy, U.S. Dep’t. of Energy, to Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission, at 1 (Oct. 23, 2025).  National Grid supports the Department of Energy’s limitation of Commission 
jurisdiction to those facilities that meet the definition of “transmission facilities” consistent with the Commission’s 
seven-factor test.  ANOPR at P18. 

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
 
including data centers, interconnecting to the nation’s electric grid will require significant 
upgrades to accommodate their high energy consumption levels and ensure reliability.  National 
Grid’s own experience in New York and New England confirms the need to define the “rules of 
the road” for such large load interconnections.  This initiative comes at a critical juncture, when 
the reliability and efficiency of the transmission system are more vital than ever.  National Grid’s 
extensive operational experience underscores the need for rules that both facilitate the necessary 
investments in transmission infrastructure and maintain rigorous system reliability standards. 
We recognize the strategic importance of these large loads and the opportunity to work 
collaboratively to find innovative solutions to connect them quickly by leveraging flexibility 
and/or locating them where spare capacity exists.  Done well, this can reduce the amount of 
system upgrades required and/or be used as a bridge to allow faster connection given the time it 
takes to permit and build system upgrades.  This can benefit existing ratepayers by reducing the 
risk they are exposed to higher costs associated with new system upgrades. 
National Grid is actively working to implement solutions to make this possible, including 
through our engagements with companies such as Emerald AI and GridCARE, which focus on 
advanced analytics and flexible demand management.  If integrated with flexibility, these loads 
can help contribute to overall cost efficiency and even lower rates for other customers.   
We welcome the opportunity to contribute our perspective to this rulemaking process.  
We want to emphasize the importance of a coherent but adaptable framework that supports  
innovation and the enduring integrity of our electric grid.  We recognize the urgency of this 
effort.  The pace at which large loads are seeking interconnection is accelerating.  The scale of 
investment required to accommodate these additions is unprecedented.  It is essential that any 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
 
framework enables timely and efficient interconnections and manages these investments in a way 
that protects customers from undue cost burdens. 
Below, National Grid highlights certain key principles that the Commission should 
consider when taking action in this proceeding.   
First, the Commission should be mindful of the jurisdictional issues raised by the 
proposal that it assert jurisdiction over large load interconnections to the transmission grid.  
States have jurisdiction over all rates, terms, and conditions of service to end users of electric 
energy, including the interconnection of end users to the transmission grid.  The Commission 
should frame its rulemaking to balance affordability, reliability, and growth for regions and 
customers.  Federal jurisdiction over large load interconnections to the transmission grid should 
be positioned as an accelerant to State objectives.  Assertion of FPA jurisdiction should be done 
in a manner that is narrowly tailored to interconnection as proposed in the ANOPR, so that the 
Commission’s narrow jurisdiction over large load interconnection does not interfere with State 
jurisdiction over retail service while enabling collaboration that benefits customers and the grid.  
Second, many States and regions have already begun their own efforts to address the 
challenges of large-load interconnections.  For example, the New York Independent System 
Operator Inc. (“NYISO”) already has large load interconnection procedures and is considering 
updates to those procedures.  Any Commission rule in this proceeding should allow regional 
flexibility to build on procedures already in effect or to adapt general requirements to the unique 
needs of each region.  A final rule should reflect this reality and be limited to truly large loads as 
defined on a region-by-region basis, which in most regions, including New York and New 
England, is likely to be at a higher MW threshold than 20 MW. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
 
Third, in jurisdictions around the country, electric utilities are developing approaches to 
ensure that new large load customers bear their fair share of transmission costs, including 
through dedicated large load rate classes, long-term contracts, “take or pay” minimum bill 
requirements, and “exit fees” for early termination.  These mechanisms help ensure that the 
incremental revenues contributed by large load customers appropriately reflect the utilities’ 
incremental costs to serve them.  It would not be just and reasonable to apply a 100% up-front 
Contributions in Aid of Construction (“CIAC”) framework (as used for certain transmission 
facilities built to accommodate generator interconnections) to all transmission network upgrades 
triggered by large load interconnections.  Cost allocation approaches should take into account the 
principle that “beneficiaries pay” for the cost of network transmission investment, including both 
requesting customers and all transmission system users where both benefit. 
Any rule in this proceeding must also be pragmatic.  Reliability and safety remain 
essential.  The Commission must implement rules in a way that not only addresses benefits of 
connecting large loads at pace and scale, but also ensures that new risks are not imposed on the 
grid.  The following are some key considerations the Commission should take into account: 
 Option to build:  Maintaining transmission owner control over network upgrades is 
essential to ensure consistency, safety, and long-term system integrity.  National Grid 
currently supports and allows large load customers to construct sole-use 
interconnection facilities, subject to appropriate oversight and commissioning 
requirements. 
 Hybrid facilities:  Interconnection processes for hybrid facilities involving both load 
and generation should be more streamlined and responsive than generator 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
 
interconnection procedures under the Commission’s Order No. 2023.4  Otherwise, 
large load projects like data centers could easily be caught up in the extended 
generator interconnection cluster study process, which would delay their 
implementation.  Rather than subjecting these projects to full cluster study timelines, 
the Commission could explore exemptions or streamlined processes for hybrid 
facilities where generation is primarily intended to serve the associated load.  Any 
limitations on injection or withdrawal rights must avoid reliance on remedial action 
schemes that could impair reliability.  Instead, clear operating parameters and 
enforceable technical limits can provide a practical path forward, ensuring that large 
loads remain reliable contributors to the system. 
 Flexible and curtailable large loads:  Large loads that agree to curtailment or other 
flexibility can help reduce or defer costly network upgrades, make better use of 
existing transmission capacity, and accelerate interconnection timelines.  These 
arrangements, if paired with robust operational safeguards and compliance protocols, 
can unlock innovation and efficiency while maintaining reliability—consistent with 
the objectives of the ANOPR. 
Finally, to account for State efforts to deal with large load interconnections and avoid 
disruptions to existing progress made by States, the Commission should allow for a reasonable 
transition period that allows substantial deference to State approaches already in effect, 
consistent with the proposal in the ANOPR.   
 
4  
See Improvements to Generator Interconnection Procs. & Agreements, Order No. 2023, 88 FR 61014 
(Sept. 6, 2023), 184 FERC ¶ 61,054 (2023) (“Order No. 2023”). 

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
 
II. 
DESCRIPTION OF COMMENTER 
Direct and indirect subsidiaries of National Grid USA are engaged in: (i) electric 
transmission under Commission jurisdiction in New York, Massachusetts, Vermont, and New 
Hampshire; (ii) electric distribution to residential, commercial, and industrial customers in New 
York and Massachusetts; and (iii) the distribution of natural gas to residential, commercial, and 
industrial customers in New York and Massachusetts.  National Grid has placed its New York 
transmission facilities under the operational control of the NYISO.  National Grid has placed its 
New England transmission facilities under operational control of ISO New England, Inc. (“ISO-
NE”).  NGV operates in competitive markets outside of National Grid’s core regulated business 
activities in the United States and United Kingdom.  NGV focuses on developing, operating, and 
investing in energy projects, technologies, and partnerships to accelerate the development of 
clean energy projects.  As a result, NGV is an active participant in most of the regional 
transmission organizations (“RTOs”) and independent system operators (“ISOs”) throughout the 
United States, through generation and transmission development or investment in various 
projects or partnerships. 
National Grid appreciates the opportunity to file comments on the ANOPR and is 
thankful for the U.S. Department of Energy’s leadership in presenting potential reforms to 
facilitate the interconnection of large loads to the transmission system in this proceeding, as any 
modifications to the interconnection requirements for such loads could have a significant impact 
on the operational efficiency, system reliability, and investment strategies underpinning both 
National Grid’s transmission facilities and the broader electric grid. 
 The outcome of this proceeding holds significant implications for the management and 
cost allocation of transmission investments more generally, as well as for ensuring predictability 
in the rules governing large load interconnections.  Given that National Grid’s operations directly 

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
 
support millions of customers across diverse and complex markets, any regulatory changes that 
could impact infrastructure planning, rate structures, or system reliability are of profound 
importance to National Grid’s business and the communities we serve.  National Grid looks 
forward to working with the Commission and other stakeholders to pursue a regulatory process 
that supports continued infrastructure investment and upholds the standards necessary to secure 
the reliability of the nation’s transmission and distribution networks, while also maintaining 
affordable electric service for all retail load customers. 
III. 
COMMENTS  
A. 
Certainty is Needed on the Rules for Large Load Interconnections. 
National Grid anticipates that a standardized set of rules for large load interconnections 
would be critical to addressing the uncertainties that both transmission owners and large loads 
such as data center developers frequently encounter during interconnection planning.  Our 
experience has highlighted that uncertainty as to the “rules of the road” can result in 
inefficiencies, increased project timelines, and difficulties developing cost estimates.  
Establishing a uniform framework would not only streamline the interconnection process for 
large loads but also foster a degree of consistency across jurisdictions, thereby instilling greater 
confidence among all stakeholders. 
This need for certainty is amplified by the strategic importance of large loads and the 
accelerating pace at which they seek interconnection.  Clear, predictable rules will enable timely 
and efficient integration of these customers, supporting economic growth and innovation while 
maintaining system reliability.  Done well, these efforts can also unlock opportunities for 
flexibility and cost efficiency, allowing large loads to locate where spare capacity exists and 
reducing the need for significant system upgrades, benefits that ultimately help keep rates 
affordable for all customers. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 
 
Using the well-established generator interconnection procedures as a starting point for 
any large load interconnection rules offers the benefit of familiarity and proven operational 
efficiency.  However, as the Commission has acknowledged in the context of generator 
interconnection, it remains important to allow flexibility for regional variations, acknowledging 
the unique grid characteristics and market dynamics inherent in different areas.5  Successful 
adaptations to the Commission’s generator interconnection rules in regions such as New York 
and New England demonstrate that a tailored approach that maintains core federal standards can 
effectively address local challenges to the benefit of overall system reliability.  In addition, the 
Commission should recognize the substantial differences between large load customers and 
generator interconnection customers in pursuing any reforms. 
B. 
The Jurisdictional Issues Raised by the ANOPR Should Be Carefully 
Considered. 
The ANOPR proposes that the Commission assert FPA jurisdiction over large load 
interconnections to the transmission system,6 representing a significant expansion of the 
jurisdiction claimed by the Commission.  Traditionally, the Commission has left all regulation of 
service to end users to the States as retail service.  For example, in Order No. 888, the 
Commission stated, “while we believe in most cases there will be identifiable local distribution 
facilities subject to state jurisdiction, we also believe that even where there are no identifiable 
local distribution facilities, states nevertheless have jurisdiction in all circumstances over the 
service of delivering energy to end users.”7  Consistent with this line between federal and State 
 
5  
See Order No. 2023 at P 1764 (allowing for flexibility in required interconnection frameworks in light 
regionally variations in operating and reliability requirements). 
6  
ANOPR at PP 13-16. 
7  
Promoting Wholesale Competition Through Open Access Non-discriminatory Transmission Services by 
Public Utilities; Recovery of Stranded Costs by Public Utilities and Transmitting Utilities, Order No. 888, 61 FR 
21540, at 21626 (May 10, 1996), FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,036 (1996), order on reh’g, Order No. 888-A, 62 FR 
12274 (Mar. 14, 1997), FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,048 (1997), order on reh’g, Order No. 888-B, 81 FERC ¶ 61,248 
(1997), order on reh’g, Order No. 888-C, 82 FERC ¶ 61,046 (1998), aff’d in relevant part sub nom. Transmission 

--- PAGE 9 ---
9 
 
jurisdiction, the connection of large loads—i.e., end users—to the transmission grid for purposes 
of obtaining retail delivery service has been historically regulated by the States.  State regulators 
and other commenters are expected to raise concerns about the proposed assertion of jurisdiction 
over large load interconnections to the transmission system.  National Grid urges the 
Commission to give such comments careful consideration.   
Any regulatory shift should be carefully considered, ensuring that necessary State 
jurisdictional powers (namely, responsibility for overseeing retail electric services, setting retail 
service rates, and allocating costs across classes of retail rate customers) remain intact.  This 
balance is vital for maintaining consistency in retail rate decisions that have evolved under State 
regulatory frameworks.  For example, existing Massachusetts law mandates that all customers 
are served by local electric distribution utilities.8  For National Grid, Massachusetts Electric 
Company (“MECO”) is the National Grid retail electric distribution utility required to serve all 
retail load customers regardless of size, and MECO’s affiliate New England Power Company 
(“NEP”) owns and operates National Grid transmission facilities in Massachusetts.  It is critical 
to preserve the existing customer relationship required by State law between MECO and load 
customers, even when a transmission-level interconnection is necessary.  Maintaining this 
relationship allows MECO to determine if a distribution, sub-transmission, or transmission 
interconnection is required, and would allow consistency across all customer classes.  The 
Commission should clarify that its jurisdiction over transmission interconnection requirements 
does not alter this relationship or interfere with State authority over retail service terms and 
conditions. 
 
Access Policy Study Group v. FERC, 225 F.3d 667 (D.C. Cir. 2000), aff’d sub nom. New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1 
(2002). 
8  
See Mass. Gen. Laws ch. 164, § 92 (“Right of User to Gas or Electricity”). 

--- PAGE 10 ---
10 
 
At the same time, jurisdictional clarity should serve as an enabler of speed, scale, and 
innovation, not as an irritant or workaround to State authority.  A shared governance model that 
positions federal jurisdiction as an accelerant to State objectives, such as affordability, reliability, 
and resilience, will foster trust and collaboration.  Large loads often have national footprints and 
plan competitively across regions; aligning federal and State roles can help attract these 
investments while maintaining system integrity and customer protections.    
Should the Commission move to assert FPA jurisdiction over large load interconnections 
to the transmission system, such federal authority should be exercised in a narrow and carefully 
defined manner.  Specifically, and consistent with the ANOPR’s proposed approach,9 federal 
oversight should be focused exclusively on aspects such as transmission interconnection 
requirements and procedures, thereby leaving intact State control over rates, terms, and 
conditions for end-user services.  This structured approach both respects State jurisdiction and 
ensures that federal involvement does not unnecessarily complicate the established regulatory 
landscape.   
C. 
The Commission Should Allow for Regional Flexibility and Complement In-
flight Regional Initiatives.  
To effectively implement any new framework for large load interconnections, it is critical 
that the final rule allows for regional flexibility.  Recognizing that the landscape of transmission 
operations varies significantly across different jurisdictions, this approach permits ISOs, RTOs, 
and public utility transmission owners to implement any new regulatory framework based on the 
unique market characteristics and coordination needs in their regions.  Such adaptability also 
ensures that the resulting federal regulatory requirements remain sensitive to local market 
dynamics and State-focused retail oversight. 
 
9  
See ANOPR at P 15. 

--- PAGE 11 ---
11 
 
This flexibility is not just a matter of regulatory efficiency, it is essential to achieving the 
urgency and scale required to integrate strategically important large loads quickly and reliably.  
Regions that can build on existing procedures, rather than starting from scratch, will be better 
positioned to meet the accelerating pace of interconnection requests.  For example, the NYISO 
already has procedures in place to study large loads interconnecting to the transmission system.  
Allowing the NYISO and other regions to leverage these existing processes will help avoid 
unnecessary delays and support innovation. 
Regional flexibility creates space for collaborative solutions that align with State 
objectives while leveraging federal authority as an accelerant.  This approach respects local 
conditions while enabling a cohesive national framework that promotes reliability, affordability, 
and resilience.  By encouraging regions to think strategically about opportunities to attract large 
loads and optimize existing capacity, the Commission can help ensure that interconnection 
reforms deliver benefits for both new customers and existing ratepayers.   
D. 
The Threshold for Defining Large Loads Should Be Determined on a Region-
by-Region Basis. 
National Grid is concerned that a bright line 20 MW test for defining “large loads”10 will 
not be workable in many regions of the nation.  Such a low threshold could subject smaller 
projects with minimal reliability impact or required upgrades to a cluster study process or other 
large load interconnection process in the NYISO and ISO-NE regions that extends for a long 
time.  Many projects above 20 MW, such as small commercial or industrial development projects 
could be connected faster outside of a large load interconnection process and connecting them 
faster supports economic development within the areas we serve.  A higher threshold, such as 50 
MW or 80 MW, may be more appropriate in some regions.  In addition, the MW threshold could 
 
10  
See id. at P 19. 

--- PAGE 12 ---
12 
 
be different depending on the voltage of the transmission facility to which a large load is 
connecting, as is the case in the NYISO today.11  For these reasons, the Commission should 
allow each region to determine the MW threshold for defining a large load.  
E. 
The Commission Should Account for the Substantial Differences Between 
Large Load and Generator Interconnection Customers. 
Although the standardization principles underpinning the Commission’s generator 
interconnection rules might provide a starting place for a potential standardized framework 
governing the interconnection of large loads, it is critical to acknowledge the differences between 
the two types of entities and establish rules for the interconnection of large load that are 
consistent with its characteristics.  Large loads interconnecting to the transmission system and 
generator interconnection customers occupy fundamentally different roles within the electric 
grid.  Generators function as wholesale electricity suppliers, feeding power into the system, 
while large loads are retail end-use consumers that draw power from the grid and pay delivery 
charges for their use of the electric system.  Generators are engaged in the wholesale sales of 
electricity and do not pay for transmission service in the ISO-NE and NYISO regions.  On the 
other hand, all load customers pay for transmission service, whether they obtain it directly or 
more often indirectly as part of a bundled service from their local distribution company.  Because 
of these differences, rules that are just and reasonable for generator interconnection customers 
quite likely will not be just and reasonable as applied to large loads interconnecting to the 
transmission grid.  Developing a final rule that respects this distinction is crucial because the 
appropriate regulatory considerations for these two types of entities differ significantly. 
 
11  
See NYISO, Load Interconnection Procedure and Applicability (Nov. 10, 2022) 
https://nyiso.my.site.com/MemberCommunity/s/article/Load-Interconnection-Procedure-and-Applicability. 

--- PAGE 13 ---
13 
 
The implications for transmission investment are also quite different.  Large load 
interconnections are anticipated to drive substantial transmission investments given the 
significant modifications required to accommodate high energy consumption levels and ensure 
reliability.  Generator interconnections, while critical, typically entail lower levels of 
transmission investment as their purpose revolves around dispatchable power injection rather 
than firm high-volume consumption.  These distinctions support substantially different treatment 
of large load interconnections than the Commission’s treatment of generator interconnection 
customers.   
F. 
Commission Policy Should Reflect Cost Allocation That Protects Customers.  
The ANOPR contemplates allocation of certain network upgrade costs to large load and 
hybrid facilities, drawing on the generator interconnection model.12  National Grid believes it is 
in the interest of all parties to protect native retail load customers.  If transmission investment 
needed to accommodate large loads results in upward bill pressure for other existing customers, 
this could foster affordability concerns and prompt consumer backlash, which might imperil 
investment in beneficial data centers and AI infrastructure.  Further, it is important that smaller 
native load customers do not end up subsidizing infrastructure that might not be needed but for 
these large load interconnection customers.  
 While a direct assignment method may work for generator interconnections (where 
generators do not pay ongoing revenues), it would be problematic if applied to large load 
interconnections (where customers do).  Commission policy should allow rate-based recovery of 
network upgrades through rates charged to all customers, subject to State oversight, because 
network upgrades benefit all customers using the integrated transmission system and therefore, 
 
12  
ANOPR at P 25 

--- PAGE 14 ---
14 
 
unlike “sole-use” customer interconnection facilities, they should be paid for by all customers 
using the transmission system. 
Courts have also recognized that any rate design under the FPA must allocate 
infrastructure costs to the customers who benefit from such investments:  
[T]he Commission's adoption of a beneficiary-based cost allocation method is a logical 
extension of the cost causation principle.  Under that basic tenet, which we have 
repeatedly embraced, “costs are to be allocated to those who cause the costs to be 
incurred and reap the resulting benefits.”13 
In jurisdictions around the country, electric utilities are developing approaches to ensure 
that new large load customers bear their fair share of transmission costs, including through 
dedicated large load rate classes, long-term contracts, “take or pay” minimum bill requirements, 
and “exit fees” for early termination.  These mechanisms help ensure that the incremental 
revenues contributed by large load customers appropriately reflect the utilities’ incremental costs 
to serve them. 
It would not be just and reasonable to apply a 100% up-front CIAC framework as used 
for certain transmission facilities built to accommodate generator interconnections to all 
transmission network upgrades triggered by large load interconnections.  Such cost allocation 
would unreasonably burden smaller commercial and industrial customers whose requests trigger 
large upgrades on constrained parts of the system, with the potential for this level of cost burden 
to stymie valuable economic development opportunities.  Furthermore, fully assigning network 
upgrades to connecting customers would create free-ridership among other customers who 
benefit from those investments contemporaneously or over the full lives of those network assets. 
 
13  
S.C. Pub. Serv. Auth. v. FERC, 762 F.3d 41, 85 (D.C. Cir. 2014) (quoting Nat'l Ass'n of Regulatory Util. 
Commis. v. FERC, 475 F.3d 1277, 1285 (D.C. Cir. 2007)). 
 

--- PAGE 15 ---
15 
 
Long-standing practices for recovering transmission network infrastructure through rates over 
time avoids both of these issues. 
Additionally, 100% up-front paid CIACs do not traditionally include a return component.  
Even assuming such an approach is just and reasonable as applied to the targeted transmission 
upgrades needed to accommodate generator interconnections, it would not be just and reasonable 
as applied to the dramatically larger transmission investments needed to provide service to large 
load end-use customers.  Today, large load end users that are directly connected to the 
transmission grid pay a return on transmission facilities built to provide service to those large 
loads in one of two ways:  (1) the large load obtains retail delivery service from a distribution 
company that pays for transmission service under cost-of-service rates that allow the 
transmission owner to earn a return on its investment; or (2) the large load obtains unbundled 
transmission service directly and pays for transmission service under cost-of-service rates that 
allow the transmission owner to earn a return on its investment. 
A rate design where a public utility is not permitted to earn a sufficient return on the 
significant capital investment necessary to provide interconnection service to large loads would 
violate Supreme Court standards and deprive public utilities of their property in violation of the 
Constitution.14  In essence, such an approach would compel public utilities to provide service 
over their property on a not-for-profit basis, undermining fundamentals of the investor-owned 
utility model.15 
 
14  
See Bluefield Water Works Co. v. Publ. Serv. Comm'n., 262 U.S. 679, 690 (1923) (“Rates which are not 
sufficient to yield a reasonable return on the value of the property used at the time it is being used to render the 
service are unjust, unreasonable, and confiscatory, and their enforcement deprives the public utility company of its 
property in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.”). 
15  
See FPC v. Hope Nat. Gas Co., 320 U.S. 591, 603 (1944). 

--- PAGE 16 ---
16 
 
Allowing large load customers to fund 100% or the majority of their transmission 
investments through CIAC payments without returns would force other transmission and retail 
customers to shoulder a disproportionate portion of the associated costs.  Investors would still 
expect an overall return on their equity investments in public utilities, which return would need 
to be earned solely from transmission customers not falling under the large load interconnection 
rule.  This disparity in cost allocation would be unduly discriminatory, as it favors new large spot 
load interconnection customers at the expense of other customers, while providing the majority 
of the benefits to those large spot load interconnection customers. 
Should the Commission determine that its existing precedent for cost allocation of 
network upgrades does not apply for certain new types of large loads, the Commission could 
confirm that the direct assignment of transmission costs to a large load customer does not 
preclude a public utility’s ability to structure its recovery from the large load customer as 
payments over time, inclusive of the return on assets traditionally derived from transmission or 
retail load customers.  In the alternative, and subject to State laws regarding the unbundling of 
transmission service, the Commission could treat large loads connecting to the transmission grid 
as a type of transmission customer, paying cost-of-service rates with a return component.   
G. 
The Commission Could Provide Guidance on Applying “Beneficiary Pays” 
Methodologies to Network Upgrades to Support Keeping Rates to Retail 
Customers Affordable. 
 
National Grid believes that the cost allocation principle that “beneficiaries pay” may 
require a specific application considering the unique circumstances created by the unprecedented 
additions of large loads to the transmission system.  Even though looped network facilities are 
often viewed as providing benefits to all customers, the large loads themselves may be a primary 
beneficiary of network upgrades built to accommodate their projects.  More specific 
“beneficiaries pay” approaches may be warranted in this context.    

--- PAGE 17 ---
17 
 
 
Recognizing that large load customers are a primary beneficiary of network upgrades 
built to accommodate their addition to the system will ultimately benefit all parties.  Requiring 
new large loads to pay their fair share under a defined beneficiaries pays cost allocation 
framework could provide added certainty, facilitating beneficial infrastructure investment. 
H. 
The Commission Should Ensure Network Upgrades Are Performed by 
Transmission Owners to Maintain Reliability, While Allowing Option-to-
Build for Sole-Use Interconnection Facilities. 
Allowing large load interconnection customers the option to construct their own network 
upgrades introduces risks that could jeopardize overall system reliability.  National Grid believes 
that maintaining transmission owner control over these upgrades is essential to ensure 
consistency, safety, and long-term system integrity.  At the same time, National Grid currently 
allows, and supports continuing to allow, large load customers to construct interconnection 
facilities utilizing the utility’s applicable standards and the approved contractor list supplied by 
the utility.  The utility must also be allowed to review and approve the engineering and 
construction.  
National Grid recommends that transmission owners retain responsibility for all network 
upgrades as the complexity of network upgrades requires not only regulatory oversight, but also 
the nuanced understanding that comes from centralized management by dedicated and 
experienced utility personnel.   
I. 
The Interconnection of Hybrid Facilities Involving Both Load and 
Generation Should Be Streamlined to Encourage Co-Location. 
To fulfill the objectives of promoting technology investments, large load interconnection 
processes should be more streamlined and responsive than generator interconnection procedures 
implemented pursuant to Order No. 2023.  The generator interconnection process is strictly 
defined and would limit large loads from submitting interconnection requests to a specific 

--- PAGE 18 ---
18 
 
window.  If they miss this window, large loads would need to wait as much as two years for the 
next cluster study.   
The NYISO experience is illustrative.  The generation transitional cluster study is on an 
approximately 567-day cycle.  While it is reasonable for studies of the interconnection of large 
loads to be coordinated with generator interconnection studies,16 such coordination should 
proceed on a timeline that provides flexibility to ensure studies can be completed in a timely 
manner to support interconnecting large loads efficiently.  Moreover, due to the disparate needs 
of each region, this is one way where regional flexibility will be important. 
At the same time, the Commission should consider approaches that make this 
requirement consistent with the objective of encouraging co-located generation.  For example, 
rather than subjecting these projects to full cluster study timelines, the Commission could 
explore exemptions or streamlined processes for hybrid facilities where generation is primarily 
intended to serve the associated load.  Such approaches could include tailored study tracks and 
clear operating parameters that maintain reliability while enabling innovation.  By promoting 
efficient study processes and encouraging hybrid configurations, the Commission can help 
unlock the benefits of co-location, such as reduced transmission investment, improved resource 
adequacy, and enhanced resilience, while advancing its goals of speed, reliability, and 
affordability.   
J. 
The Commission Should Promote Efficient Study Processes for Hybrid 
Facilities While Maintaining Reliability. 
Hybrid facilities that involve both load and generation present unique challenges, but 
they also offer opportunities to reduce overall supply costs for operating the grid.  The 
 
16  
See ANOPR at P 20. 

--- PAGE 19 ---
19 
 
Commission should ensure that study processes for hybrid facilities are designed to support 
timely interconnection without compromising reliability. 
We recommend that hybrid facilities not be studied on the same timeline as generation 
projects, as doing so could unnecessarily delay large load interconnections.  Instead, a tailored 
approach can allow these projects to proceed more expeditiously while still coordinating with 
generator interconnection studies where appropriate. 
While flexibility is valuable, any limitations on injection or withdrawal rights must be 
implemented carefully to avoid reliance on remedial action schemes that could impair reliability.  
Practical solutions include defining clear operating limits in contracts and ensuring that system 
planning accounts for maintenance and operational realities.  These measures can help manage 
risks effectively while enabling hybrid facilities to contribute positively to system efficiency. 
K. 
Flexible and Curtailable Large Loads Can Deliver Significant Benefits with 
Proper Safeguards. 
National Grid supports a speedy approach to all large load interconnections and believes 
that flexibility and curtailment commitments can play an important role in achieving this goal.  
Large loads that agree to be curtailable or otherwise flexible offer the potential to reduce costly 
network upgrades, make better use of existing transmission capacity, and accelerate 
interconnection timelines.  These arrangements can help buy time for longer-term infrastructure 
investments and, if implemented thoughtfully, may even put downward pressure on rates for 
other customer classes by avoiding unnecessary capital expenditures.  Done well, flexibility can 
unlock opportunities for innovation and efficiency, consistent with the objectives outlined in the 
ANOPR.17 
 
17  
National Grid notes with interest the comments being filed in this proceeding by the Advanced Energy 
Management Alliance (“AEMA”) which suggest a fast-track Flexible Load Fast Track for facilities that can 
verifiably adjust their consumption in response to system conditions and deliver flexibility to the grid.  National 

--- PAGE 20 ---
20 
 
At the same time, these benefits must be balanced against reliability and operational 
realities.  Connecting sizable loads directly to the transmission grid requires studies that remain 
consistent with Good Utility Practice, and curtailment commitments can introduce complexity 
into those studies.  Flexible arrangements also require robust operational protocols to ensure that 
loads comply with dispatch signals when needed to maintain system reliability.  While many 
large loads—such as data centers—typically seek highly reliable service with minimal 
interruptions, there is growing interest in creative solutions that align customer needs with grid 
capabilities, such as Emerald AI’s Conductor platform, an AI-powered orchestration system that 
dynamically manages data center workloads in real time to reduce power consumption during 
grid stress events. 
L. 
Any Final Rule Should Allow For a Reasonable Transition Period. 
Establishing a reasonable transition period is essential to ensure a smooth regulatory shift 
while maintaining continuity for large load interconnection projects already in advanced stages 
under retail interconnection procedures.  This approach recognizes that significant investments 
have been made in reliance on the existing regulatory framework.  By allowing these projects to 
proceed without disruption, similar to the transition period implemented as part of the 
Commission’s generator interconnection reforms under Order No. 2023,18 stakeholders can avoid 
the costly delays and uncertainties that might result from an abrupt regulatory change.  Offering 
regions the flexibility to implement a defined transition period will both facilitate an orderly 
 
Grid appreciates AEMA’s suggestions and agrees with the objective of using large load flexibility to reduce upgrade 
requirements and increase speed of connection.  While the ANOPR seeks comment on a 60-day timeline for 
interconnection studies for large loads, ANOPR at P 24, National Grid observes that flexible load studies are novel 
and may introduce additional requirements to ensure all applicable NERC and FERC reliability standards are met.  
Furthermore, we suggest the Commission bear in mind that savings in interconnection timelines from potentially 
avoided upgrade requirements are likely to be larger than savings from shorter timelines for technical studies. 
18  
See Order No. 2023 at P 856 (acknowledging the importance of transition processes to allow 
interconnection customers, along with other market participants, time to adjust to new processes and requirements). 

--- PAGE 21 ---
21 
 
evolution towards new interconnection rules and promote regulatory fairness by respecting the 
planning and development efforts already underway. 
Moreover, it is crucial that large load interconnection projects nearing completion under 
existing regulatory processes are not subjected to re-evaluation under new interconnection 
criteria.  Imposing reevaluation requirements at the end stages of development could lead to 
unnecessary complications, increased costs, and detrimental delays.  Ensuring that these projects 
remain governed by the rules in effect at the initiation of their development provides certainty to 
investors and other project stakeholders.  Ultimately, a balanced transition protocol that exempts 
mature projects from a disruptive reevaluation ensures both the completion of critical 
infrastructure development and the effective implementation of any new regulatory frameworks. 
Accommodating significant regional differences is essential to avoid conflicts between 
the transmission and retail regulatory realms.  By allowing for the Commission’s final rule to 
reflect local conditions, the framework can prevent the imposition of a one-size-fits-all mandate 
that might otherwise disrupt the balance between growing transmission needs and retail 
regulatory protections. 
IV. 
CONCLUSION 
The growing demands on the nation’s grid present not only challenges but also 
significant opportunities.  Large loads, particularly those driven by AI and other advanced 
technologies, are strategically important to economic growth and innovation.  Done well, 
connecting these loads quickly and efficiently can deliver benefits for all customers by ensuring 
that new loads contribute to the fixed costs of the existing network, helping to keep rates 
affordable. 
To achieve these outcomes, the Commission should adopt a framework that respects 
regional differences, promotes practical solutions, and encourages innovation.  Streamlined study 

--- PAGE 22 ---
22 
 
processes, clear operating parameters, and cost allocation grounded in fairness will help ensure 
that reforms deliver benefits for both new customers through faster connection and existing 
ratepayers while maintaining system reliability.  Approaches that enable large loads to locate 
where spare capacity exists and leverage flexibility to reduce the need for costly upgrades will be 
critical to success. 
The Commission should also consider policies that encourage co-located generation and 
hybrid facilities, which can reduce transmission investment and improve resilience.  Tailored 
study tracks and exemptions for projects where generation primarily serves the associated load 
can unlock these benefits without compromising reliability.  By promoting efficient processes 
and supporting advanced technologies, the Commission can help modernize the grid while 
meeting urgent interconnection needs. 
Flexibility will play a critical role in achieving these outcomes.  By encouraging and 
incentivizing large loads to provide flexibility, we can accelerate interconnection timelines.  
National Grid is actively investing in solutions to enable this, including advanced analytics and 
demand management tools, because we believe flexibility is key to unlocking a more efficient 
and resilient grid. 
National Grid is committed to working with the Commission and stakeholders to develop 
pragmatic, forward-looking policies that achieve these goals.  By focusing on collaboration, 
flexibility, and fairness, we can ensure that large loads are connected in ways that benefit both 
new customers and existing ratepayers, while maintaining the integrity and reliability of the 
transmission system. 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 23 ---
23 
 
Respectfully submitted: 
 
/s/ Michael C. Calviou 
Michael C. Calviou 
SVP, US Policy & Regulation 
michael.calviou@nationalgrid.com 
 
Max Luke 
Director, Transmission & Wholesale Market Policy 
max.luke@nationalgrid.com 
 
Amber Thornhill 
Director, FERC and ISO Relations & Market Policy 
amber.thornhill@nationalgrid.com 
 
Christopher J. Novak 
Senior Counsel 
chris.novak@nationalgrid.com 
 
National Grid 
170 Data Drive 
Waltham, MA 02451 
 
November 21, 2025 
