--- PAGE 1 ---
 
1 
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE  
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to  
 
) 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
the Interstate Transmission System 
 
) 
 
REPLY COMMENTS  
OF OLD DOMINION ELECTRIC COOPERATIVE 
 
Old Dominion Electric Cooperative (“ODEC”) appreciates the opportunity to provide reply 
comments pursuant to the Notice Inviting Comments issued in the above-referenced proceeding 
on October 27, 2025, pertaining to the Secretary of Energy’s October 23, 2025, proposed advance 
notice of proposed rulemaking1 (“Proposed ANOPR”) made pursuant to section 403 of the 
Department of Energy Organization Act. 
I. 
INTRODUCTION 
As ODEC stressed in its Initial Comments on the Proposed ANOPR,2 the Commission 
should use this opportunity to provide clarity and establish a durable framework for the 
interconnection of large loads to the transmission system in a manner that ensures reliability. 
However, the Commission must do so in a manner consistent with the Commission’s statutory 
responsibility to ensure that the costs associated with accommodating these extraordinary new 
demands are borne by the new large loads driving them, consistent with cost-causation principles.3  
 
1 U.S. Dep’t of Energy, Letter from Sec’y Chris Wright to Fed. Energy Regulatory Comm’n (Oct. 23, 2025), 
https://www.energy.gov/sites/default/files/2025-10/403%20Large%20Loads%20Letter.pdf. By Notice issued 
November 7, 2025, the Commission extended the deadline for reply comments to December 5, 2025. 
2 Old Dominion Elec. Coop., Comments of Old Dominion Electric Cooperative (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (FERC 
Accession No. 20251121-5343) (“ODEC Initial Comments”). 
3 Id. at 1, 9, 10-11; see also, e.g., Sw. Elec. Power Co., 39 FERC ¶ 61,099, 61,293 (1987) (citing Towns of 
Alexandria v. Fed. Power Comm’n., 555 F2d. 1020, 1028 (D.C. Cir. 1977); Mun. Light Bds. v. Fed Power Comm’n, 
450 F.2d 1341, 1348 (D.C. Cir. 1971); Atl. Ref. Co. v. Pub. Serv. Comm’n of N.Y., 360 U.S. 378, 388 (1959); Fed 
Power Comm’n v. Hope Nat. Gas Co., 320 U.S. 591, 610 (1944)) (“The primary purpose of the [Federal Power Act] 
is the protection of consumers from excessive rates and charges”); Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 191 
FERC ¶ 61,231, at P 26 (2025) (citing KN Energy, Inc. v. FERC, 968 F.2d 1295, 1300 (D.C. Cir. 1992)) (“. . . 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
2 
 
There is no debate regarding whether the Commission needs to act. Further, based on the 
initial comments submitted in reply to the Proposed ANOPR, there appears to be a consensus that 
the status quo policies and procedures for interconnecting large loads, or absence of such measures 
specific to large loads, are insufficient to address the urgent need for a response to the national 
imperative to integrate emerging, energy-intensive facilities onto the grid, with sufficient resources 
to serve them while maintaining reliability. In order for the Commission to ensure just and 
reasonable rates and honor its responsibility for reliability and resource adequacy, the Commission 
should use this proceeding to provide clarity and a set of policies or principles that must be adopted 
by transmission providers, with flexibility for regional differences. 
As a load-serving entity in the PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (“PJM”) region, ODEC’s 
Initial Comments on the Proposed ANOPR focused in part on the PJM Region. Here too, ODEC’s 
comments below rely on ODEC’s experience in PJM, but raise matters that the Commission should 
be able to address on a generic basis in a Final Rule. ODEC’s Initial Comments addressed the 14 
principles in the ANOPR and will not be repeated here. Instead, ODEC uses this reply to reiterate 
three key principles that the Commission should ensure as it addresses large load interconnections, 
in a generic manner in this proceeding as well as individual proceedings that might be initiated by 
filings under Federal Power Act sections 205 or 206, or on the Commission’s own initiative.4 As 
discussed below, the three principles are as follows: (1) the Commission must act swiftly to provide 
necessary clarity, adopt generally applicable rules and/or standards, and direct compliance filings; 
(2) the Final Rule must include specific directives to ensure reliability and resource adequacy; and 
 
pursuant to the [Federal Power Act], costs must be allocated according to the cost causation principle, which 
requires that ‘all approved rates reflect, to some degree, the costs actually caused by the customer who must pay 
them.’”).  
4 See, e.g., PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 190 FERC ¶ 61,115 (2025) (instituting a show cause proceeding pursuant 
to Federal Power Act section 206 against PJM and PJM Transmission Owners). 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
3 
 
(3) the Final Rule must adopt requirements to ensure that large loads pay their fair share of the 
costs.  
II. 
COMMENTS 
A. The Commission must act swiftly to provide necessary clarity, adopt generally 
applicable rules and/or standards, and direct compliance filings.  
 
As the Proposed ANOPR recognized, there is an urgent need for the Commission to address 
large load interconnections to the transmission system.5 This urgency is reflected in comments on 
the Proposed ANOPR,6 as well as in individual proceedings.7 For example, NERC expressed its 
agreement with the DOE that “this is an urgent issue that requires prompt attention.”8 In its updated 
load forecast, PJM noted that the rapid rate of projected large load additions over the next several 
years raises resource adequacy risk for a transitional period, and requires additional actions.9 More 
specifically, PJM’s 2025 long-term load forecast shows a peak load growth of 32 GW from 2024 
 
5 See Proposed ANOPR, Transmittal Letter at 1 (DOE Secretary Wright stated that the issue of large loads being 
able to connect to the transmission system is “an urgent issue that needs prompt attention.”); Proposed ANOPR at 4 
(“According to NERC, demand growth is higher than at any point in the past two decades.”). 
6 See, e.g., N. Am. Elec. Reliability Corp., Comments of the North American Electric Reliability Corporation in 
Response to Notice Inviting Comments, at 2 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“NERC Initial Comments”) (noting NERC’s 
activities already underway “to address the urgent need to properly manage the risks associated with growing 
demand from large load users of the [Bulk Power System] . . .”); Exelon Corp., Comments of Exelon Corporation, at 
2 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (recognizing the “importance and urgency of addressing” electricity demand and the 
interconnection of large loads) (“Exelon Initial Comments”); Va. State Corp. Comm’n, Initial Comments of the 
Virginia State Corporation Commission, at 4 (highlighting the demand growth noted in NERC’s 2024 Long-Term 
Reliability Assessment) (“VSCC Initial Comments”). 
7 See, e.g., Constellation Energy Generation, LLC, Complaint Requesting Fast Track Processing of Constellation 
Energy Generation, LLC, Docket No. EL25-20-000, at 11-12 (filed Nov. 22, 2024) (explaining “regulatory 
uncertainty and challenges” related to co-located data center projects and the need for urgent Commission action); 
PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Answer of PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Docket Nos. EL25-49-000, et al., at 4-5 (filed 
Mar. 24, 2025) (expressing the need for “Commission guidance on a path forward” regarding co-location 
arrangements and noting the ”important national interested implicated”); Indep. Market Monitor for PJM, Complaint 
of the Independent Market Monitor for PJM v. PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Docket No. EL26-30-000, at 10 (filed 
Nov. 25, 2025) (“PJM markets face an urgent need for immediate clarification of PJM’s authority over the 
interconnection of large new data center loads”). 
8 See NERC Initial Comments at 13. 
9 PJM Large Load Additions Conceptual Proposal and Request for Member Feedback, at 2 (Aug. 18, 2025), 
available at 20250818-item-03---pjm-conceptual-proposal-and-request-for-member-feedback---presentation.pdf. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
4 
 
to 2030, of which approximately 30 GW is projected to be from data centers.10 PJM’s updated load 
forecast made a “case for action” based on PJM’s expectation that “forecasted supply may be 
insufficient to meet the expected demand for a transitional period, and we believe action may be 
necessary to support resource adequacy.”11 PJM proposed several objectives in its Critical Issue 
Fast Path (“CIFP”) process, including creating “ways for large loads to connect as rapidly as 
possible and at the same time, determine a plan for how reliability is maintained in case there is a 
resource adequacy shortfall.”12 Notably, while the PJM Board initially indicated that a proposal to 
address rules for interconnecting data centers and other large loads might be filed with the 
Commission by the end of the year,13 no such proposal has been filed to date. 
There is a broad and dire call for the Commission to address the press of data center 
development and perceived delays with large load interconnections, some of which are beyond the 
control of transmission providers. These challenges persist and will be exacerbated as data center 
and large load interconnection requests continue to pile up, without clarity and rules to ensure 
reliability, resource adequacy, and reasonable cost allocation.  
Given the urgent need for rules to address large load interconnections, the Commission 
needs to act quickly to have solutions implemented in any reasonable timeframe. It will likely take 
more than a year for the Commission’s determinations in this proceeding to be implemented. The 
DOE Letter anticipates Commission final action on the Proposed ANOPR by April 30, 2026. Any 
final action in this proceeding should include a requirement for compliance filings. Thus, even 
 
10 Letter from David E. Mills, Chair, PJM Board of Managers, at 1 (Aug. 8, 2025), available at 20250808-pjm-
board-letter-re-implementation-of-critical-issue-fast-path-process-for-large-load-additions.pdf. 
11 Id. at 3. 
12 Id. at 5. 
13 Id. at 2.  

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
5 
 
after the Commission issues a Final Rule in this proceeding, it will take time for transmission 
providers to revise their interconnection processes and provisions as necessary to implement the 
Final Rule. PJM anticipates that it will need at least 12 months or more additional months after 
issuance of any final rule and acceptance of compliance filings, to implement any new large load 
interconnection process. Any rules the Commission promulgates should, therefore, be broad 
enough to apply to loads already connected and in study processes. Moreover, as ODEC discussed 
in its Initial Comments, because large loads can be online in at least half the time it takes to bring 
generation online, and transmission upgrade timelines should be considered, the Final Rule should 
provide for a transition plan that will address resource adequacy for both system stability and to 
protect existing customers from shouldering the costs associated with large loads.14  
For all of these reasons, ODEC urges the Commission to act swiftly in issuing a Final Rule 
that will address the principles contained in the ANOPR and issues raised in comments on the 
ANOPR. In this regard, ODEC encourages the Commission not to be influenced by parties calling 
for the Commission to slow down its consideration of these issues or proceed at a pace that does 
not match the urgency of these matters.15 “Swift” and “diligent” are not mutually exclusive, and 
the Commission can – and should – issue a reasoned decision that will provide large loads a way 
to interconnect with the transmission system and/or through hybrid configurations, in a manner 
that preserves reliability and resource adequacy, and at rates that are just, reasonable and not 
unduly discriminatory or preferential. Any such Final Rule should include compliance filing 
requirements, to ensure continued progress on addressing large load interconnections.  Further, to 
 
14 ODEC Initial Comments at 12. 
15 See, e.g., Ctr. for Biological Diversity, Reply Comments of the Center for Biological Diversity, at 31 (filed Dec. 
4, 2025) (suggesting that the rulemaking on these issues should be “deliberate, not rushed” and urging the 
Commission to “prioritize thoughtful deliberation over meeting the DOE-requested deadline of April 30, 2026 for 
finalizing reforms to expedit large-load interconnection.”). 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
6 
 
hopefully mitigate against unintended adverse consequences and challenges in implementing the 
Final Rule, the Commission should provide flexibility to accommodate regional differences, 
provided transmission providers demonstrate compliance that is consistent with or superior to the 
requirements of the Final Rule. 
B. The Final Rule Must Include Specific Directives to Ensure Reliability and 
Resource Adequacy 
As ODEC and others discussed in their Initial Comments, the Final Rule in this proceeding 
must ensure that reliability of the transmission grid remains uncompromised as unprecedented 
large loads are integrated. ODEC reiterates its agreement with ANOPR Principle 14 and urges the 
Commission to adopt a requirement in the Final Rule that utilities serving large loads must meet 
all applicable NERC reliability standards and OATT provisions, as well as require large loads to 
be registered with NERC and require NERC to enhance its existing registry criteria and Reliability 
Standards and create new Standards as required to address the operational complexities that large 
loads introduce to the grid.16  
In order to ensure reliability of the Bulk Power System (“BPS”) consistent with the 
Commission’s statutory obligation,17 ODEC supports NERC’s request that the Final Rule reflect 
the full scope of NERC’s reliability authority as pertaining to the BPS.18 This should include 
NERC’s authority to regulate resource adequacy and reliability as applied to users, owners and 
operators as needed to ensure reliability of the BPS.19 Given the critical and paramount need to 
ensure reliability as large loads impact the operation of the BPS, the Final Rule in this proceeding 
 
16 ODEC Initial Comments at 12-13. 
17 Federal Power Act Section 215, 16 U.S.C. § 824o (2024). 
18 NERC Initial Comments at 8-12. 
19 Id. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
7 
 
should direct NERC to complete its stakeholder coordination activities to explore revisions to the 
registry criteria and Reliability Standards that would incorporate large loads impacting reliable 
operation of the BPS, and resource adequacy requirements for the Reliability Coordinator. NERC 
should submit a report to the Commission within a specified period (e.g., one year after issuance 
of the Final Rule) together with a timeline for submission of any additional registry criteria and/or 
Reliability Standards.20 
 
ODEC also agrees that the Final Rule must provide for continued resource 
adequacy.21 We will not wade into the debate over federal-state jurisdiction to preserve resource 
adequacy.22 Instead, ODEC urges the Commission to exercise the full extent of its authority, 
respect the states’ role and jurisdiction over resource adequacy, and provide clarity in these roles,23 
as well as the role of RTOs/ISOs in preserving resource adequacy. For example, the Final Rule 
should recognize that interconnecting large loads that will result in partial or full suspension of an 
existing resource raises different and more concerning impacts than a load interconnection with a 
 
20 See id. at 12-17. 
21 See Nat’l Rural Elec. Coop. Ass’n, Comments of the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association, at 4 (filed 
Nov. 21, 2025) (quoting NERC’s Reliability Issues Steering Committee’s 2025 ERO Reliability Risk Priorities 
Report that cautions, “Failure to address the integration of large loads from a policy perspective could exacerbate the 
reliability considerations associated with energy sufficiency and resource adequacy challenges.”); Org. of PJM 
States, Inc., Initial Comments of the Organization of PJM States, Inc., at 11 (noting that in addition to ensuring that 
the final action in this proceeding not degrade overall system reliability, “just as importantly it will be necessary for 
the Commission to consider how reliability and resource adequacy will be maintained if load is added to the system 
but not balanced with new generation.”); VSCC Initial Comments at 4 (“Absent well-developed policy regarding 
this load growth, states would face real resource adequacy constraints that imperil service to customers.”). 
22 See Org. of MISO States, Inc., Initial Comments of the Organization of MISO States, Inc., at 4 (filed Nov. 21, 
2025) (“A fine line should be parsed (if possible, here) to ensure the stated objectives of the ANOPR are paired with 
ensuring states maintain reliability and preserve resource adequacy . . .”); PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Initial 
Comments of PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., at 1 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“PJM is committed to continued engagement 
with its stakeholders in industry, the states, and at the federal level to collaboratively tackle resource adequacy 
challenges and related large load interconnections in the PJM Region.”) (“PJM Initial Comments”). 
23 See PJM Initial Comments at 2, 9 (encouraging the Commission to issue “nearer-term regulatory guidance” on 
resource adequacy, among other matters, and suggesting the Commission assess whether hybrid configurations are 
resource positive or, at a minimum, resource neutral.). 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
8 
 
build-your-own generation arrangement that includes new generation. The former arrangement 
will siphon resources away from the very loads that have financially supported the existing 
generation, at a time when resource adequacy is already severely threatened. The Commission 
should take measures to protect against such an outcome. At the very least, ODEC supports the 
ANOPR proposal in Principle 10, to require a system support resource/reliability must run type 
study for partial suspension of existing generators to serve new loads at the same location. In PJM, 
the Necessary Studies process may not adequately consider resource adequacy impacts where an 
existing generator will be partially suspended to serve new loads at the same location. Finally, on 
this issue, ODEC encourages the Commission to require RTOs and ISOs to submit proposals to 
maintain reliability and resource adequacy with large load interconnections, including hybrid 
configurations. 
C. The Final Rule Must Adopt Requirements to Large Loads Pay their Fair Share 
of the Costs Incurred to Serve Them 
 
ODEC agrees with NRECA that “to keep rates affordable to consumers, it is imperative 
that large loads pay their own way when interconnecting directly with the interstate transmission 
system.” Consistent with principles of cost causation and as far as the Commission’s jurisdiction 
allows, the Commission must also require measures to ensure that large loads in hybrid 
configurations are responsible for all of the costs caused by their interconnection. This will require 
the Commission to require that all costs associated with transmission upgrades and facilities caused 
by the large load interconnection must be allocated to the large load or, as necessary, the FERC-
jurisdictional entity serving the large loads. ODEC agrees with comments that the Commission 
will need to consider whether direct assignment of the costs for specific transmission necessitated 
by the large load interconnection is consistent with cost causation principles or, instead, whether 
the reasonable cost allocation is to include large loads in a pool of entities that are assigned costs 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
9 
 
related to upgrades on broader transmission network or some combination of the two. The latter 
approach would cover the costs that are caused by large loads beyond their immediate 
interconnection, including ongoing maintenance24 and the maintenance on the overall transmission 
system. 
ODEC also agrees that to ensure just and reasonable cost allocation for the unique 
circumstances posed by large loads that can have significant impacts on transmission reliability 
and resource adequacy, the Commission may need to revisit the necessary agreements for large 
load interconnection. Utilities and transmission owners have developed agreements with large 
loads customers that will maintain cost-causation principles while protecting other wholesale and 
retail customers from cost-subsidizing the large loads.25 ODEC encourages the Commission to 
require a review of existing agreements in order to ensure that they are accommodating the unique 
challenges and costs associated with large loads in a manner consistent with principles of cost 
causation. At the very least, the Commission should resist efforts by large loads and those who 
will profit from large loads, against agreements tailored to the unique and significant cost impacts 
caused by service to large loads.26 
 
 
24 See Exelon Initial Comments at 10-11. 
25 See Indicated PJM Transmission Owners, Comments of the Indicated PJM Transmission Owners, at 15-16 (filed 
Nov. 21, 2025). 
26 See Constellation Energy Generation, LLC, Supporting Comments of Constellation Energy Generation, LLC, at 
18 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (Constellation contends that Transmission Owners leverage their control over 
interconnection in the negotiation of Transmission Service Agreements. While ODEC certainly supports non-
discriminatory provision of services and believes that consistent standards will go a long way in preventing undue 
discrimination, ODEC also believes that the status quo agreements may not be sufficient to address fair cost 
allocation for large loads.). 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
10 
 
III. 
CONCLUSION 
WHEREFORE, for the foregoing reasons, ODEC urges the Commission to adopt an 
approach that aligns cost responsibility with cost causation, protects incumbent customers, and 
advances reliability as its foremost obligation. ODEC appreciates the Commission’s consideration 
of its Initial Comments and these Reply Comments. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 /s/ Adrienne E. Clair 
Adrienne E. Clair 
Jenna Cliatt 
Thompson Coburn LLP 
1909 K Street, N.W., Suite 600 
Washington, D.C.  20006-1167 
(202) 585-6900 
(202) 585-6969 (fax) 
aclair@thompsoncoburn.com  
jcliatt@thompsoncoburn.com 
 
Attorneys for Old Dominion Electric 
Cooperative 
 
Dated: December 5, 2025 

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
 
 
I hereby certify that on this 5th day of December 2025, I have caused a copy of the foregoing 
to be served upon each party designated on the Commission’s Official Service List for this 
proceeding. 
 
 /s/Adrienne E. Clair 
 
