--- PAGE 1 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 – Comments of Indiana Energy Association  
 
1
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to 
the Interstate Transmission System  
 
) 
) 
) 
) 
 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
COMMENTS OF 
INDIANA ENERGY ASSOCIATION  
Introduction  
The Indiana Energy Association (“IEA”)1 appreciates the opportunity to comment on the Federal 
Energy Regulatory Commission’s (“FERC”) Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking 
(“ANOPR”) regarding the interconnection of large loads to the transmission system. 
The IEA supports FERC’s goal of ensuring that large new loads — including industrial, 
manufacturing, and data-center projects — can interconnect efficiently and reliably. However, as 
noted in NARUC’s November 11, 2025 resolution on this topic, the ANOPR raises important 
questions about jurisdictional boundaries under the Federal Power Act (“FPA”), which sets out 
clear delineations of federal and state regulatory authority. Moreover, states such as Indiana are 
demonstrating that state procedures are proactively and effectively addressing new large load 
customer interconnections, rendering significant FERC intrusions into state jurisdiction 
unnecessary and potentially duplicative.   
The IEA respectfully urges FERC to ensure that any final rule: 
• 
Recognizes that states are proactively addressing large load customer issues. 
• 
Preserves state jurisdiction over service to, and rates for, retail customers (of all 
magnitudes) and local distribution facilities.  
 
1 For purposes of these comments, the IEA consists of the following electric utility members of the association: Duke Energy 
Indiana, LLC, Indianapolis Power & Light Company d/b/a AES Indiana, Northern Indiana Public Service Company, and Southern 
Indiana Gas & Electric Company d/b/a CenterPoint Energy Indiana South. 
 

--- PAGE 2 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 – Comments of Indiana Energy Association  
 
2
The IEA also respectfully encourages the FERC to continue to focus on (1) improvements to 
regional transmission operator (“RTO”) interconnection queues — which states do not have 
jurisdiction to directly address — and (2) encouraging additional needed transmission 
investments. 
1. Indiana’s Proactive Actions to Address Large Load Customers 
Indiana has demonstrated that it is proactively and effectively addressing large load customer 
issues, through legislation, unique tariffs, and expedited regulatory proceedings. For example, in 
2024, the Indiana General Assembly passed legislation providing for expedited contract 
approvals (and expedited generation resource approvals) for large load customers, while also 
protecting retail customers by requiring a large load customer to provide adequate assurance of 
payment for eighty percent (80%) of the cost to serve such a customer. (See Ind. Code ch. 8-1-
7.9) Earlier in 2024, the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission (“IURC”) approved an Indiana 
Michigan Power Company proposal and tariff (modified through settlement) that applies 
specifically to large load customers. (See In Re Indiana Michigan Power Co., IURC Cause No. 
46097, 2025 IND. PUC LEXIS 33 (Feb. 19, 2025)). This order and the approved tariff recognize 
the increased energy needs of large load customers while also requiring financial commitments 
from such customers to protect the utility’s existing customers. 
In addition, for decades the IEA electric utilities have used individualized electric service 
contracts, approved by the IURC, to address electric interconnection and power supply to large, 
sophisticated customers. As noted above, the 2024 Indiana legislation also provides for expedited 
IURC approvals of such individualized contracts which can be customized to meet the unique 
needs of both the customers and the utilities. While the ANOPR asserts a desire to standardize 
large load customer interconnections, the IEA respectfully submits that unique contracts between 
a utility and its large load retail customers, scrutinized by state regulators, will better serve the 
large load customers, the utility, and the utility’s other retail customers. 
2. Importance of Maintaining the Existing Federal–State Jurisdictional Balance 
The ANOPR asserts that large load interconnections are a “critical component of open access 
transmission service,” like electric generator interconnections standardized in Order No. 2003, 

--- PAGE 3 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 – Comments of Indiana Energy Association  
 
3
requiring minimum terms and conditions to ensure non-discriminatory transmission service. 
There are significant differences, however, between electric generator connections and large load 
retail customer interconnections, particularly in traditionally-regulated, vertically-integrated 
states like Indiana. Not only are there longstanding federal and state jurisdictional differences 
between electric generator interconnections and retail customer interconnections, there are also 
differences in the potential for discrimination. Transmission service to independent electric 
generators raises legitimate questions of discrimination for competitive reasons. In contrast, in 
states like Indiana, utilities have both an obligation and a natural incentive to serve (and 
interconnect) new customers.   
Transmission interconnections for all retail customers, regardless of size, are part and parcel of a 
utility’s provision of retail utility service. States have adequately and efficiently regulated 
interconnections between their jurisdictional utilities and large load customers for decades. The 
only difference today is the number of large load customers — mostly data centers — seeking to 
interconnect and take service. A change in the number of large retail customers seeking 
interconnection should not drive a major change in jurisdictional boundaries between the federal 
government and states.The ANOPR also asserts that large load interconnections directly affect 
wholesale electricity rates, over which the FERC has exclusive jurisdiction under the FPA to 
ensure wholesale rates are just and reasonable. But the FERC cannot use its “affecting” 
jurisdiction to regulate where the Federal Power Act has expressly denied FERC jurisdiction. 
Notably, section 212 of the FPA provides that “[n]o order issued under this chapter shall be 
conditioned upon or require the transmission of electric energy:  (1) directly to an ultimate 
customer ….” 16 U.S. Code § 824k(h). Moreover, the impact of large load interconnections affects 
state retail electricity rates more than wholesale rates. In Indiana, the IEA electric utilities devote 
the vast majority of their investments and operations to serving their retail customers, not 
wholesale customers. States such as Indiana are experienced and well-positioned to ensure that 
all cost components of a utility’s retail electric service, including transmission interconnections, 
translate into just and reasonable retail rates. 
Under FPA § 201(b)(1), FERC’s jurisdiction extends to wholesale sales and transmission in 
interstate commerce, but not to “facilities used in local distribution” or to “any other sale of electric 
energy.” Federal Power Act § 201(b)(1), 16 U.S.C. § 824(b)(1). 

--- PAGE 4 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 – Comments of Indiana Energy Association  
 
4
States — including Indiana — have long regulated the interconnection of retail customers, cost 
recovery for upgrades, local reliability planning, and resource adequacy. These activities fall 
squarely within the states’ exclusive jurisdiction. Id. To maintain this balance, FERC’s final rule 
should explicitly state that it does not apply to utility/customer interconnections involving retail 
service, even when those retail loads are large in magnitude. 
Cost recovery for upgrades that serve retail load growth should remain within state regulators’ 
ratemaking authority. Assigning such costs under federal tariffs could lead to jurisdictional 
conflicts and undermine established retail cost recovery mechanisms. FERC should clarify that 
cost-allocation rules developed in this proceeding will apply only to transmission-level network 
upgrades (as defined by FERC’s Seven-Factor Test) associated with wholesale, not retail, 
transactions. 
Conclusion 
The IEA supports FERC’s commitment to improving the interconnection process for large loads 
so long as it does so in a manner that preserves the jurisdictional framework established by 
Congress and affirmed by the courts. The IEA submits that a cooperative federal–state approach 
will ensure that large-load interconnections occur efficiently, reliably, and lawfully — promoting 
economic growth while maintaining regulatory boundaries. 
For the foregoing reasons, the IEA respectfully recommends, in any final rule, that FERC:  
(1) Recognize that states are proactively and effectively addressing large load customer 
challenges, including transmission interconnections. 
(2) Explicitly preserve state authority over all retail service. 
(3) Ensure retail cost recovery remains under state jurisdiction. 
In addition, the IEA respectfully urges the FERC to continue to focus its efforts on RTO queue 
reform and encouraging needed transmission investment. 
 

--- PAGE 5 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 – Comments of Indiana Energy Association  
 
5
Respectfully submitted, 
 
/s/ Danielle M. McGrath 
Danielle M. McGrath 
President 
Indiana Energy Association 
One American Square, Suite 1600  
Indianapolis, IN 46282  
(317) 632-4406  
dmcgrath@indianaenergy.org  
 
Dated: November 21, 2025 
