--- PAGE 1 ---
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
 
) 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
 
) 
Interstate Transmission System 
 
) 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
 
) 
SUPPLEMENTAL COMMENTS OF THE  
SOUTHWEST POWER POOL TRANSMISSION OWNER GROUP 
The Southwest Power Pool Transmission Owner Group (SPP TO Group)1 respectfully 
submits the following supplemental comments to the Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking 
(ANOPR) to memorialize in the record recent developments pertinent to this proceeding.  
Specifically, the SPP TO Group has attached, as Attachments A and B respectively, the 
Commission’s orders accepting the High Impact Large Load (HILL)2 and Consolidated Planning 
Process (CPP)3 reforms recently filed by Southwest Power Pool Inc. (SPP).  Those orders provide 
convincing support for the SPP TO Group’s position that the Commission should avoid issuing an 
overly prescriptive rule, but should instead provide broad latitude for transmission providers and 
their stakeholders to develop their own solutions to the challenges posed by large load 
interconnections.     
 
1 The SPP TO Group consists of American Electric Power Service Corporation, Evergy Kansas 
Central, Inc., Evergy Metro, Inc., Evergy Missouri West, Inc., Oklahoma Gas and Electric 
Company, and Xcel Energy Services Inc. on behalf of Southwestern Public Service Company. 
2 Submission of Tariff Revisions to Add the High Impact Large Load Processes and High Impact 
Large Load Generation Assessment, Docket No. ER26-247 (Oct. 24, 2025), order, 194 FERC 
¶ 61,031 (Jan. 14, 2026) (HILL Order) (accepting tariff revisions). 
3 Submission of Revisions to the SPP Open Access Transmission Tariff to Implement the 
Consolidated Planning Process, Docket No. ER26-414 (Nov. 3, 2025), order, 194 FERC ¶ 61,192 
(Mar. 13, 2026) (CPP Order) (accepting tariff revisions). 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
2 
To underscore this point, the SPP TO Group explains how a series of integrated SPP market 
reforms already engage with each of the fourteen ANOPR principles to accomplish the 
Administration’s goals in a manner that is legally durable and overwhelmingly supported by SPP 
stakeholders.  Those reforms often conform to the ANOPR’s recommendations, but sometimes 
achieve the Administration’s intent through alternative means.  The Commission has already 
accepted CPP and HILL, while the Commission continues to examine SPP’s pending Conditional 
High Impact Large Load Service (CHILLS) proposal.4   
At bottom, the SPP TO Group believes that it is less “necessary to standardize 
interconnection procedures,”5 than it is to accomplish the ANOPR’s fundamental objective “to 
ensure the timely and orderly interconnection of large loads to the transmission system.”6  
Standardization is merely a tool to achieve that end; it is not an end in itself.  A final rule in this 
proceeding should not undermine the extraordinary progress the SPP region has made by 
disturbing the carefully balanced consensus reforms that SPP, its public and investor-owned Load 
Serving Entities, and state regulators have collaborated to develop.   
I. 
THE HILL AND CPP REFORMS SHOW THE NEED FOR REGIONAL 
FLEXIBILITY 
In their initial comments on the ANOPR, the SPP TO Group asked that the Commission 
“expressly state that RTOs and ISOs will have broad flexibility to seek variations from any pro 
forma tariff adopted by the Commission under the independent entity variation standard.”7  Many 
 
4 See Deficiency Letter, Docket No. ER26-1323 (Mar. 30, 2026). 
5 Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Advance Notice of 
Proposed Rulemaking, Docket No. RM26-4 at P 15 (Oct. 27, 2025) (ANOPR). 
6 Id. P 1 (footnote). 
7 Comments of the Southwest Power Pool Transmission Owner Group, Docket No. RM26-4 at 3 
(Nov. 21, 2025) (Initial Comments). 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
3 
commentors shared similar perspectives.8  The reasoning behind those requests is straightforward:  
individual transmission providers and their stakeholders know the specific needs of their regions 
and are best-suited to address those needs.   
The HILL and CPP reforms show the value of permitting stakeholder-driven reforms to 
meet the ANOPR’s core objectives.  The HILL and CPP reforms are pathbreaking innovations that 
serve as models for how transmission providers and their stakeholders can adopt solutions to the 
question of large load interconnections without a nationwide rule that imposes a one-size-fits-all 
solution.  The HILL reform “enable[s] SPP to efficiently identify new large loads, expedite the 
interconnection of new generation needed to serve them, and protect the reliability of the bulk 
power system.”9  As for CPP, it is a “revolutionary proposal,”10 “one of the most innovative, 
common-sense proposals presented to the Commission since the inception of open access 
 
8 See, e.g., Comments of the Indicated PJM Transmission Owners, Docket No. RM26-4 at 18 (Nov. 
21, 2025) (“The Commission should avoid the temptation to craft a one-size-fits-all approach, 
which may limit the ability of transmission owners to best serve a variety of large load 
customers.”); id. at 19-20 (“[T]he goals of the ANOPR would best be served by allowing 
regulators, utilities, and large load customers to continue to develop and implement appropriate 
retail mechanisms to ensure adequate protections for retail customers rather than enforcing a one-
size-fits-all cost allocation rule that clashes with longstanding Commission policy.”); Initial 
Comments of the MISO Transmission Owners, Docket No. RM26-4 at 17 (Nov. 21, 2025) (“The 
MISO Transmission Owners also emphasize the importance of permitting flexibility in any 
reforms and how they are implemented.  Relatedly, the MISO Transmission Owners encourage 
the Commission to permit deviations from any final rule consistent with (1) Order Nos. 888, 890, 
2003, 2006, 845, and 2023 where the Commission applied the ‘consistent with or superior to’ 
standard when considering proposals from non-RTO/ISO transmission providers to deviate from 
the requirements of the final rule; and (2) Order Nos. 2003, 2006, 845, and 2023 where the 
Commission permitted the use of the ‘independent entity variation’ standard when considering 
proposals from RTOs/ISOs.”).  
9 HILL Order at P 1 (Rosner, Comm’r, concurring). 
10 FERC Commission Meeting, March 2026 Open Meeting at 14:51 (Mar. 19, 2026), 
https://www.ferc.gov/news-events/events/march-19-2026-open-meeting-10082025 
(FERC 
Monthly Meeting). 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
4 
transmission service,” and will “help[] to make energy more reliable and affordable in the SPP 
region.”11   
SPP’s reforms already address the goals of the ANOPR even while diverging from some 
of the specific guidance therein.  As Commissioner Rosner noted in his concurrence to the 
Commission’s HILL order,  
SPP’s [HILL] proposal is another step towards realizing the goals of Secretary 
Wright’s Large Load ANOPR proposal in three important ways:  first, it pairs new 
large loads and new generation to connect them to the grid rapidly and reliably; 
second, it minimizes costs borne by other customers; and third, it does so through 
an FPA section 205 filing, rather than waiting on the Commission to require such 
action.12 
Moreover, both HILL and CPP “address[] the core issue that has been delaying the interconnection 
of new generation:  transmission upgrade cost uncertainties.”13  However, SPP’s reforms 
demonstrate that individual transmission providers and their stakeholders can innovate to create 
feasible and efficient solutions to the challenge of large load interconnections even while not 
following every recommendation in the ANOPR.  For example, the HILL mechanism categorizes 
 
11 CPP Order at P 1 (Rosner, Comm’r, concurring).  In addition to the strong concurrences of 
Commissioners Rosner and Chang filed in support of CPP and Commissioner Rosner’s 
concurrence in support of the HILL reform, the Chairman and each of the Commissioners provided 
enthusiastic support for CPP in the Commission’s March 19, 2026 monthly meeting.  See FERC 
Monthly Meeting at 6:16-7:24 (Swett, Chairman) (calling CPP a “watershed” proposal), 14:40-
16:55 (Rosner, Comm’r), 22:28-23:50 (See, Comm’r), 29:05-32:21 (Chang, Comm’r), 48:24-57 
(LaCerte, Comm’r). 
12 HILL Order at P 4 (Rosner, Comm’r, concurring) (emphasis added) (citing U.S. Department of 
Energy, Secretary of Energy, Direction that the Commission Initiate Rulemaking Procedures and 
Proposal Regarding the Interconnection of Large Loads Pursuant to the Secretary’s Authority 
Under Section 403 of the Department of Energy Organization Act at PP 20, 25, 32 (Oct. 23, 2025)). 
13 CPP Order at P 4 (Chang, Comm’r, concurring); see HILL Order at P 27 (“SPP contends that 
any upgrade costs required under the HILLGA process will be specific to the generating facility’s 
injection for the local support of the HILL and will have limited impacts on other requests.”). 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
5 
load according to the voltage level at which it connects to the transmission system rather than using 
the inflexible 20 MW threshold proposed in the ANOPR.14 
Individual Commissioners have made clear that HILL and CPP are models to be followed.  
In his HILL Order concurrence, Commissioner Rosner encouraged transmission providers “to take 
note of the innovative approach SPP proposed … and to consider proposing similar solutions 
tailored to meet the needs within their own footprints.”15  He repeated that point in his concurrence 
to the CPP Order and again “strongly encourage[d] other transmission providers to take note of 
the innovative approach the CPP promises, and to consider developing similar integrated solutions 
tailored to meet the pressing needs within their own footprints.”16  Commissioner Chang likewise 
encouraged other RTOs/ISOs to “explore similar reforms to break the pernicious cycles that 
undermine generation development and lead to inefficient transmission system buildout.”17  The 
Commission should further encourage the creation of region-specific solutions to large load 
interconnections comparable to HILL and CPP in parallel with its consideration of the proposed 
rulemaking in this docket. 
 
14 Compare HILL Order at P 10 (“A new commercial or industrial load, or increase in commercial 
or industrial load, at a single site connected through one or more shared Points of Interconnection 
(POIs) or delivery points, where such load is either (1) 10 MW or more if connected to the 
Transmission System at a voltage level less than or equal to 69 [kilovolts (kV)]; or (2) 50 MW or 
more if connected to the Transmission System at a voltage level greater than 69 kV.”) with ANOPR 
at P 19 (“the reforms should only apply to new loads greater than 20 MW and, for hybrid facilities, 
where the load is greater than 20 MW”). 
15 HILL Order at P 5 (Rosner, Comm’r, concurring) (emphasis added). 
16 CPP Order at P 8 (Rosner, Comm’r, concurring). 
17 Id. P 7 (Chang, Comm’r concur.). 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
6 
II. 
SPP HAS ALREADY ADDRESSED THE ANOPR PRINCIPLES 
The ANOPR states fourteen principles the Administration proposed “to ensure the timely 
and orderly interconnection of large loads to the transmission system.”18  Below, the SPP TO 
Group explains how SPP engaged with each of those principles through CPP, HILL, and its 
pending CHILLS reform.  Those reforms often conform to the ANOPR’s recommendations, but 
sometimes achieve the Administration’s intent through alternative means.  SPP has good reasons 
for those deliberate departures,19 which the SPP TO Group believes will be more effective in the 
SPP region than the standardized recommendations in the ANOPR.  
A. 
Principle 1 
The ANOPR first proposes that “to avoid even arguably affecting the States’ jurisdiction 
over generation facilities, facilities used in local distribution or only for the transmission of electric 
energy in intrastate commerce, or transmissions consumed by the transmitter,” the Commission’s 
jurisdiction be “limited to interconnections directly to transmission facilities, consistent with the 
Commission’s seven-factor test.”20   
Neither the CPP nor the HILL reforms encroach on state jurisdiction.  In particular, CPP 
unified the interconnection of load and generation in one process with the unanimous support of 
its stakeholders, including the states in its region.  SPP’s Regional State Committee—comprised 
of retail regulatory commissioners from Arkansas, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Minnesota, Missouri, 
 
18 ANOPR P 1 (footnote omitted). 
19 The submissions in the HILL and CHILLS dockets often cross reference the ANOPR, and vice 
versa.  See, e.g., Motion to Intervene and Supporting Comments of ITC Great Plains, LLC, Docket 
No. ER26-1323 at 4-5 (Mar. 4, 2026); Comments of the Southwest Power Pool Transmission 
Owner Group, Docket No. ER26-247 at 13 (Nov. 13, 2025); Comments of Enchanted Rock, LLC, 
Docket No. ER26-247 at 2-3 (Nov. 14, 2025).  
20 ANOPR at P 18. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
7 
Nebraska, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Dakota, and Texas21— unanimously 
supported CPP.22  By contrast, representatives from nearly all of those states filed comments 
opposing a generic ANOPR.23   
The success of CPP and the unanimous support received from SPP’s stakeholders provides 
an excellent example of collaboration bridging the divide between federal and state jurisdiction.  
CPP shows that stakeholders wish to, and are capable of, designing interconnection solutions that 
work for their specific regional needs without encroaching on state jurisdiction.  By allowing 
transmission providers to develop their own region-specific interconnection solutions, the 
Commission can avoid the jurisdictional minefield that an overbroad rule might create. 
B. 
Principle 2 
Principle 2 suggests that the ANOPR’s reforms “should only apply to new loads greater 
than 20 MW and, for hybrid facilities, where the load is greater than 20 MW.”24  As mentioned 
above, the threshold SPP adopted in its HILL reform varies by voltage.  Specifically,  
 
21 SPP, Regional State Committee, https://www.spp.org/stakeholder-groups-list/organizational-
groups/regional-state-committee/. 
22 See CPP Order at P 13.  
23 See, e.g., Motion for Leave to Submit Comments Out-of-Time and Initial Comments of the 
Kansas Corporation Commission, Docket No. RM26-4 at 9 (Nov. 25, 2025) (“Stated another way, 
FERC should ensure that any reforms are narrowly tailored to avoid an improper (and unnecessary) 
expansion of jurisdiction over load, the generation and local distribution facilities required to serve 
retail load, or the design of retail rates paid by load.”); Initial Comments of the New Mexico Public 
Regulation Commission, Docket No. RM26-4 at 4 (“FERC should ensure that any final rule 
respects the FPA’s jurisdictional boundary and preserves New Mexico’s sovereign authority to 
regulate retail service, resource decisions, and economic development consistent with state law 
and legislative priorities.”); Initial Comments of the Arkansas Public Service Commission, Docket 
No. RM26-4 at 3 (Nov. 21, 2025) (“Rather than imposing new standards, the APSC urges FERC 
to support the state regulatory authorities by establishing voluntary best practices, establish 
backstop authority only in instances of demonstrated delay or discrimination, and avoid any 
implication that the federal government is asserting jurisdiction over retail-level obligations.”). 
24 ANOPR at P 19. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
8 
A new commercial or industrial load, or increase in commercial or industrial load, 
at a single site connected through one or more shared Points of Interconnection 
(POIs) or delivery points, where such load is either (1) 10 MW or more if connected 
to the Transmission System at a voltage level less than or equal to 69 [kilovolts 
(kV)]; or (2) 50 MW or more if connected to the Transmission System at a voltage 
level greater than 69 kV.25 
Straying from the 20 MW threshold definition of “large load” makes sense in SPP due to the 
prevalence of 69 kV lines in the Eastern Interconnection portion of SPP’s region and because “the 
size of the load may impact SPP’s transmission system differently at different voltage levels.”26  
While a 20 MW threshold may work for other regions, it would not work for SPP.  However, 
transmission providers outside of SPP should be left to define “large loads” as they see fit with 
their stakeholders and according to their region’s unique circumstances.  The Commission need 
not dictate what the limit is, although it should direct all transmission providers to designate and 
justify an appropriate threshold. 
C. 
Principle 3 
The ANOPR also provides that, “to the extent practicable, load and hybrid facilities should 
be studied together with generating facilities” in order to “minimize the need for costly network 
upgrades.”27  This is the entire purpose of the CPP, HILL, and CHILLS reforms.  CPP 
“eliminat[es] the silos between the transmission planning process and the generator 
interconnection process, synthesizing and streamlining them into one recurring three-year 
planning cycle.”28  To avoid expensive network upgrades, under CPP, SPP publishes a one-time 
 
25 HILL Order at P 10. 
26 Id. P 11. 
27 ANOPR at P 20. 
28 CPP Order at P 1 (Rosner, Comm’r concurring). ` 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
9 
upfront entry fee in the form of the GRID-C29 before interconnection requests are submitted 
annually.  SPP then further reduces the cost of upgrades by identifying Planned Interconnection 
Locations—areas where transmission capacity has already been proactively developed and where 
an Interconnection Customer will not be responsible for additional upgrade costs beyond its one-
time, upfront GRID-C charge.30 
Likewise, the purpose of the HILL reform is to link large loads to generating facilities, 
hybrid or otherwise, in order to allow for the efficient siting of both.  It does this through its 
HILLGA study process, an expedited study process designed to promptly interconnect new 
generating facilities or approve changes to existing generating facilities.  Any upgrade costs 
required under the HILLGA process are specific to the generating facility’s injection for support 
of a specific HILL.31 
D. 
Principle 4 
The ANOPR recommends that load and hybrid facilities should be subject to standardized 
study deposits, readiness requirements, and withdrawal penalties and that these requirements 
should be designed to “deter speculative projects and provide transmission providers with more 
useful information to more accurately forecast demand on their systems.”32 
SPP’s reforms satisfy this principle.  The HILL reform imposes a $10,000 non-refundable 
application fee, a $100,000 deposit to perform an HDPS study, a $200,000 fee for an EMT analysis 
 
29 Capitalized terms used but not defined herein are defined in the SPP Tariff, Operating 
Agreement, or CHILLS proposal.   
30 See SPP Tariff, Attach. AY § IV.3. 
31 Submission of Tariff Revisions to Add the High Impact Large Load Processes and High Impact 
Large Load Generation Assessment, Docket No. ER26-247 at 32 (Oct. 24, 2025). 
32 ANOPR at P 21. 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
10 
if necessary, and increased deposits for requests to study and interconnect HILLs33 and 
HILLGAs.34  CPP likewise imposes substantial withdrawal penalties equal to any unused portion 
of a study deposit plus two times the actual allocated cost of all studies performed for an 
interconnection customer’s interconnection request up until the point of withdrawal.35  The 
withdrawal penalty framework SPP has embraced satisfies Principle 4, and the Commission should 
not impose a new rule that interferes with what SPP and its stakeholders have accomplished.  The 
SPP TO Group remains agnostic as to the appropriate size of withdrawal penalties in other regions 
so long as they accomplish the ANOPR’s intent to deter speculative projects. 
E. 
Principle 5 
The ANOPR provides that “utilities serving large loads, including those at hybrid facilities, 
should be responsible for transmission service based on their withdrawal rights, as that value 
amount reflects the quantity of capacity and energy that will be transmitted across the transmission 
system to the load.”36  Under HILL, SPP treats large loads and co-located generation as distinct 
for tariff and metering purposes and assesses transmission service on the load’s gross withdrawals, 
not net of on-site generation at the same bus.37  This ensures that the transmission system is planned 
and funded to meet a large load’s full reliability needs.  This also avoids implicit cost shifts when 
an on-site generator is unavailable and the grid must stand ready to serve all of the large load’s 
needs.38  The HILL reform also assists with resolving issues surrounding the matching of load with 
 
33 See SPP Tariff, Attach. BA § 2.1.3.5. 
34 See id., Attach BB § 8.2. 
35 Id., Attach. AY §§ V.3.7.1.-7.2. 
36 ANOPR at P 28. 
37 See SPP Tariff, Attach. AE § 2.22.2; id., Attach. BB, Appx. 2 §§ 7.1, 7.3. 
38 Cf Supplemental Comments of WIRES, Docket No. RM26-4 (Mar. 30, 2026) (presenting 
Concentric whitepaper that explains why direct assignment of network upgrade costs to large loads 

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
11 
generation by permitting new large loads to be served by both co-located generation and 
electrically proximate generation. 
Of course, the new CPP regime greatly improves the transmission planning process by 
simultaneously solving both load and generator interconnection requirements, which allows SPP 
to develop plans that already reflect the value of “the capacity and energy that will be transmitted 
across the transmission system to the load.”39  An important innovation in CPP is the designation 
of Planned Interconnection Locations, which bring upfront cost clarity to generators, especially 
when paired with the HILL innovations.   
F. 
Principle 6 
Principle 6 proposes to require hybrid interconnection customers to install system 
protection facilities in order to prevent unauthorized injections or withdrawals that exceed their 
injection and withdrawal rights.40  The HILL reform more than satisfies this requirement.  
Specifically, a “HILLGA Customer must, at its expense, install, operate and maintain System 
Protection Facilities as a part of the Generating Facility or Interconnection Customer’s 
Interconnection Facilities.”41  SPP’s Tariff defines System Protection Facilities as “the equipment, 
including necessary protection signal communications equipment, required to protect (1) the 
Transmission System from faults or other electrical disturbances occurring at the Generating 
Facility and (2) the Generating Facility from faults or other electrical system disturbances 
occurring on the Transmission System or on other delivery systems or other generating systems to 
 
may not adequately reflect their contributions to the system and result in indirect cost shifts to 
retail ratepayers over time).  
39 ANOPR at P 28. 
40 See id. P 23. 
41 SPP Tariff, Attach. BB, Appx. 2 § 9.7.4.1 (System Protection Facilities) 

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
12 
which the Transmission System is directly connected.”42  Each party to a HILLGIA will have the 
right to inspect another party’s tests and/or inspection of any of its System Protection Facilities, 
review the settings of their System Protection Facilities, and review System Protection Facility 
maintenance records.43  A HILLGA Customer bears responsibility for protecting the Generating 
Facility and its other equipment from certain conditions.44   
G. 
Principle 7 
The ANOPR proposes that “the interconnection study of large loads that agree to be 
curtailable and hybrid facilities that agree to be curtailable and dispatchable should be 
expedited.”45  SPP has taken this principle seriously as evidenced by the HILL reform and SPP’s 
pending CHILLS proposal.  The HILL reform provides a 90-day expedited review process for 
generation projects in close electrical proximity to the load they are meant to serve.46  SPP’s 
pending CHILLS proposal is similarly designed to provide non-firm, long-term transmission 
service to enable HILLs to receive transmission service “on an expedited basis” until the HILL’s 
Transmission Customer is able to obtain enough Designated Resources to support Long-Term 
Service and/or until necessary Network Upgrades are completed to provide Long-Term Service.47  
CHILLS is currently pending while SPP responds to clarifications recently requested by the 
 
42 Id., Attach. V § 1 Definitions:  System Protection Facilities. 
43 Id. Attach. BB, Appx. 2, 3 § 6.4 (Right to Inspect).  
44 Id. Attach. BB, Appx. 2, 3 § 9.7.5 (Requirements for Protection). 
45 ANOPR at P 24. 
46 See SPP Tariff, Attach. BB; HILL Order at P 28 (“To allow for more rapid study and decision-
making, SPP proposes to conduct a system impact study for HILLGA Requests within 90 calendar 
days of the HILLGA Review Period.”). 
47 Submission of Tariff Revisions to Add Conditional High Impact Large Load Service, Docket 
No. ER26-1323 at 8-9 (Feb. 10, 2026). 

--- PAGE 13 ---
 
13 
Commission.48  The SPP TO Group strongly support CHILLS and recommends that the 
Commission approve that proposal as a valuable, region-specific means of expediting curtailable 
load interconnections.  
H. 
Principle 8 
The ANOPR proposes that “load and hybrid facilities should be responsible for 100% of 
the network upgrades that they are assigned through the interconnection studies” and “seek 
comment on whether such costs should be offset through a crediting mechanism and, if so, over 
how many years.”49  The SPP TO Group believes it is important that new large loads pay for their 
share of the system’s imbedded costs, of which system upgrades are a part.  For example, under 
the CPP and HILL framework, as well as the pending CHILLS framework, load and hybrid 
facilities will be responsible for the cost of upgrades.  SPP, however, takes an additional step by 
actually reducing the need for upgrades through its identification of Planned Interconnection 
Locations.  
Further, the SPP Tariff already provides a variety of crediting mechanisms applicable to 
large load interconnections.  The SPP TO Group supported the HILL reform in part because it 
gives customers using the expedited interconnection process for large loads the same opportunity 
to receive transmission credits for network upgrades as it authorized for network upgrades 
associated with SPP’s Definitive Interconnection System Impact Study process.50  And, under 
CPP, if an interconnection customer withdraws its interconnection request after the Decision Point, 
 
48 See Deficiency Letter, Docket No. ER26-1323 (Mar. 30, 2026). 
49 ANOPR at P 25. 
50 Compare SPP Tariff, Attach. BB, Appx. 2, 3 § 11.5 with id., Attach. V § 4.2(1)(c); id., Appx. 6 
§ 11.5.  See also id., Attach. BB, Appx. 2, 3 §§ 5.17.3 (detailing when a gross-up for the cost 
consequences of any tax liability would apply under a HILLGIA), 5.17.8 (providing for the 
remitting of certain tax payments and interest).  

--- PAGE 14 ---
 
14 
that interconnection customer forfeits a portion of its GRID-C, which is then credited to its 
transmission customers.51 
I. 
Principle 9 
The ANOPR proposes that “to the extent the interconnection customer is not the 
transmission owner, the interconnection customer shall be afforded the same (or equivalent) option 
to build as currently provided to generator interconnection customers.”52  Neither the HILL nor 
the CPP reform have provided generator interconnection customers an option to build in SPP.  As 
the SPP TO Group explained in its initial comments, “large load interconnection customers are not 
similarly situated to generator interconnection customers and should not be afforded the same 
option to build interconnection facilities and stand-alone network upgrades” because they lack 
experience constructing or developing those facilities.53   
J. 
Principle 10 
The ANOPR proposes that “an existing generating facility that seeks to enter a partial 
suspension to serve a new load at the same location must go through a system support resource 
(SSR)/reliability must run (RMR) type study.”54  In addition, the ANOPR proposes that “[t]he 
partial suspension can only proceed after any network upgrades needed to ensure reliability are 
placed into service” and that any necessary “network upgrades shall be the responsibility of the 
generating facility.”55 
 
51 Id., Attach. AY § 3.5. 
52 ANOPR at P 26.   
53 Initial Comments at 9.   
54 ANOPR at P 27. 
55 Id.  

--- PAGE 15 ---
 
15 
Because SPP is primarily served by vertically integrated utilities and not Independent 
Power Producers (IPPs), Principle 10 is not relevant to SPP.  Unlike IPPs, vertically integrated 
utilities are public utilities required to serve all of their customers.  They do not have a reason—
nor the ability—to divert their generation away from their customers.  In other regions where that 
is an issue, the relevant transmission providers have already addressed it through their existing 
tariffs, as the SPP TO Group explained in its initial comments.56  Those regional variations 
illustrate why the Commission should avoid a broad, overly prescriptive rule.   
K. 
Principle 11 
The ANOPR proposes that “utilities serving large loads, including those at hybrid facilities, 
should be responsible for transmission service based on their withdrawal rights, as that value 
amount reflects the quantity of capacity and energy that will be transmitted across the transmission 
system to the load.”57  To the extent that “their withdrawal rights” refers to the withdrawal from 
the transmission system by the load, the HILL reform already adopts that framework.  The HILL 
reform treats large loads and co-located generation as distinct for tariff and metering purposes and 
assesses transmission service on the load’s gross withdrawals, not net of on-site generation at the 
same bus.58 
L. 
Principle 12 
The ANOPR proposes that “utilities serving large loads, including those at hybrid facilities, 
should be responsible for ancillary services based on peak demand, without consideration of any 
 
56 Initial Comments at 10 (citing PJM Interconnection, L.L.C.’s use of Necessary Studies, and 
Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc.’s use of SSR studies). 
57 ANOPR at P 28. 
58 See SPP Tariff, Attach. AE § 2.22.2; id., Attach. BB, Appx. 2 §§ 7.1, 7.3. 

--- PAGE 16 ---
 
16 
co-located generation.”59  It also proposes that “any co-located generating facilities will similarly 
be fully compensated for the provision of ancillary services.”60  As with Principle 11, the HILL 
reform addresses this principle by treating large loads and co-located generation as distinct for 
tariff and metering purposes. 
M. 
Principle 13 
The ANOPR requires there be a transition plan to implement its proposed reforms.61  CPP 
provides that carefully-curated transition plan in SPP.62  The first CPP planning cycle will be 
limited to two years, and the initial GRID-C rates will be calculated in a specific “transition study” 
meant to “align technical assumptions between the previous ITP Assessment processes, the 20-
Year Assessment, and the new CPP.”63 
N. 
Principle 14 
Compliance with “all NERC reliability standards and OATT provisions” is a general 
background requirement underlying every point of SPP’s operations.64  The CPP and HILL 
reforms comply with all applicable NERC requirements as demonstrated by the Commission’s 
acceptance of those reforms. 
 
59 ANOPR at P 29. 
60 Id. 
61 Id. P 30. 
62 See CPP Order at PP 143-44 (explaining SPP’s proposed transition to CPP). 
63 Id. P 143. 
64 ANOPR at P 31. 

--- PAGE 17 ---
 
17 
III. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons set forth above, the SPP TO Group respectfully requests that the 
Commission carefully consider the above comments and decline to impose an overly-prescriptive 
nationwide rule. 
 
 
 
John Crespo 
Deputy General Counsel 
American Electric Power Service Corporation 
1 Riverside Plaza 
Columbus, OH 43215 
(614) 205-2678 
jccrespo@aep.com 
On behalf of American Electric Power Service 
Corporation 
Denise Buffington 
Senior Director Federal Regulatory Affairs  
Evergy, Inc. 
1200 Main Street 
Kansas City, MO 64105 
(816) 556-2683 
denise.buffington@evergy.com 
On behalf of the Evergy Companies 
Chase Snodgrass 
Senior Regulatory Attorney 
OGE Energy Corp. 
321 N. Harvey Ave. 
Oklahoma City, OK 73101 
(405) 553-3129 
snodgrcc@oge.com 
On behalf of Oklahoma Gas and Electric Company 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
/s/ John Lee Shepherd, Jr. 
John Lee Shepherd, Jr. 
Kenneth R. Carretta 
Blake Grow 
Hunton Andrews Kurth LLP 
2200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW 
Washington, DC 20037 
(202) 419-2135 
(202) 778-2212 
(202) 955-1991 
jshepherd@hunton.com 
kcarretta@hunton.com 
bgrow@hunton.com 
Counsel for American Electric Power Service  
Corporation, the Evergy Companies,  
Oklahoma Gas and Electric Company, and  
Southwestern Public Service Company 
 
Timothy T. Mastrogiacomo 
Vice President, Federal Regulatory, Legal, and Policy 
Xcel Energy Services Inc. 
701 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Ste. 250 
Washington, DC 20006 
(202) 661-4481 
tim.t.mastrogiacomo@xcelenergy.com 
On behalf of Southwestern Public Service Company 
April 6, 2026 

--- PAGE 18 ---
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
I hereby certify that I have on this day caused to be served a copy of the foregoing 
comments upon all parties on the service list in these proceedings in accordance with the 
requirements of Rule 2010 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Procedure, 18 C.F.R. 
§ 385.2010 (2025). 
/s/ Blake Grow 
 
Blake Grow 
Hunton Andrews Kurth LLP 
2200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW 
Washington, DC 20037 
(202) 955-1991 
bgrow@hunton.com 
April 6, 2026

--- PAGE 19 ---
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENT A 
HILL ORDER

--- PAGE 20 ---
 
194 FERC ¶ 61,031 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Before Commissioners:  Laura V. Swett, Chairman; 
                                        David Rosner, Lindsay S. See, 
                                        Judy W. Chang, and David LaCerte. 
 
Southwest Power Pool, Inc. 
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
 
 
ORDER ACCEPTING TARIFF REVISIONS, SUBJECT TO CONDITION 
 
(Issued January 14, 2026) 
 
 
On October 24, 2025, pursuant to section 205 of the Federal Power Act (FPA)1 
and Part 35 of the Commission’s regulations,2 Southwest Power Pool, Inc. (SPP) 
submitted proposed revisions to its Open Access Transmission Tariff (Tariff) to add a 
High Impact Large Load (HILL) study process and High Impact Large Load Generation 
Assessment (HILLGA) process.  As discussed below, we accept the proposed Tariff 
revisions,3 effective January 15, 2026, as requested, subject to condition, and direct SPP 
to submit a compliance filing within 30 days of the date of this order. 
I. 
Background 
A. 
Order No. 2003 
 
In Order No. 2003,4 the Commission required public utilities that own, control, or 
operate transmission facilities to file standard generator interconnection procedures and a 
standard agreement to provide interconnection service to generating facilities with a 
capacity greater than 20 megawatts (MW).  To this end, the Commission adopted the    
 
1 16 U.S.C. § 824d. 
2 18 C.F.R. pt. 35 (2025). 
3 See Appendix for tariff records accepted in this order. 
4 Standardization of Generator Interconnection Agreements & Procs., Order       
No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103 (2003), order on reh’g, Order No. 2003-A, 106 FERC 
¶ 61,220, order on reh’g, Order No. 2003-B, 109 FERC ¶ 61,287 (2004), order on reh’g, 
Order No. 2003-C, 111 FERC ¶ 61,401 (2005), aff’d sub nom. Nat’l Ass’n of Regul. Util. 
Comm’rs v. FERC, 475 F.3d 1277 (D.C. Cir. 2007). 

--- PAGE 21 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 2 - 
pro forma Large Generator Interconnection Procedures (LGIP) and pro forma Large 
Generator Interconnection Agreement (LGIA) and required all public utilities subject to 
Order No. 2003 to modify their tariffs to incorporate the pro forma LGIP and pro forma 
LGIA.5   
 
The Commission permitted transmission providers to seek variations from the    
pro forma LGIP and pro forma LGIA if those variations were “consistent with or 
superior to” the terms of the pro forma LGIP and pro forma LGIA.6  In addition, the 
Commission indicated that it would allow regional transmission organizations and 
independent system operators (RTO/ISO), such as SPP, to propose independent entity 
variations for pricing and non-pricing provisions, stating that RTOs/ISOs have different 
operating characteristics due to their sizes and locations and that an RTO/ISO is less 
likely to act in an unduly discriminatory manner than a transmission provider that is also 
a market participant.7  The Commission found that RTOs/ISOs “shall therefore have 
greater flexibility to customize [their] interconnection procedures and agreements to fit 
regional needs.”8  Under the independent entity variation standard, an RTO/ISO must 
demonstrate that proposed variations from the Commission’s pro forma LGIP and        
pro forma LGIA are just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or preferential 
and accomplish the purposes of the Commission’s final rules on generator 
interconnection, including Order Nos. 2003 and 2023.9 
B. 
Overview of SPP’s Attachments AQ, AX, and V Processes 
 
SPP evaluates a transmission customer’s request to add or modify delivery point 
facilities associated with load additions under existing Attachments AQ (Delivery Point 
 
5 Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103 at PP 1-2. 
6 Id. PP 825-826.  The Commission also permitted transmission providers to 
justify a variation from the pro forma LGIP or pro forma LGIA based on regional 
reliability requirements and required transmission providers to submit these regional 
reliability variations to the Commission for approval under the relevant reliability 
standard.  Id. PP 824, 826. 
7 Id. P 827. 
8 Id. 
9 See, e.g., Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 185 FERC ¶ 61,084, at P 11 
(2023) (citing Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103 at PP 26, 827); Improvements to 
Generator Interconnection Procs. & Agreements, Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054, 
at P 1764, order on reh’g, 185 FERC ¶ 61,063 (2023), order on reh’g, Order No.      
2023-A, 186 FERC ¶ 61,199, errata notice, 188 FERC ¶ 61,134 (2024). 

--- PAGE 22 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 3 - 
Assessment Process) and AX (Provisional Load Process) of SPP’s Tariff.10  Under the 
Attachments AQ and AX processes, SPP studies the impacts of the requested delivery 
point addition or modification on the transmission system and determines what, if any, 
network upgrades are required to accommodate the request.  The Attachment AQ process 
is available to a transmission customer that has sufficient existing Designated Resources 
to serve its forecasted load, while the Attachment AX process is available to a 
transmission customer that lacks sufficient existing Designated Resources.11 
 
Under SPP’s current generator interconnection procedures, contained in 
Attachment V (Generator Interconnection Procedures (GIP)) of its Tariff, SPP conducts 
its interconnection study process, the Definitive Interconnection System Impact Study 
(DISIS), for which the Commission has granted an independent entity variation.12  The 
DISIS is divided into a two-phased system impact study in DISIS Phase One and DISIS 
Phase Two, which is followed by an interconnection facilities study.  The system impact 
study is a cluster study that evaluates the impact of each proposed interconnection request 
on the reliability of SPP’s transmission system.  DISIS Phase One and DISIS Phase Two 
are each followed by an interconnection customer decision point (Decision Point One and 
Decision Point Two, respectively).  The decision points provide interconnection 
customers opportunities to evaluate study results and decide whether to proceed with or 
withdraw their interconnection requests, including posting of financial security to 
continue.  
II. 
Filing 
A. 
Overview 
 
SPP states that it is experiencing an unprecedented surge in requests for large-
scale load interconnections to its transmission system from data centers, cryptocurrency 
mining operations, electrification of industrial processes, and other energy-intensive 
 
10 SPP, Tariff, attach. AQ, § 1 (1.0.0); id. attach. AQ, § 2 (2.0.0); id. attach. AQ, § 
3 (2.0.0); id. attach. AX, § 1 (0.0.0); id. attach. AX, § 2 (0.0.0). 
11 Transmittal at 14 n.26; Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 193 FERC ¶ 61,018, at PP 3-5 
(2025).  Under Attachment AX, SPP will consider the transmission customer’s planned 
generation, in addition to its existing Designated Resources, that will be used to serve its 
forecasted load.  Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 193 FERC ¶ 61,018 at PP 5, 41. 
12 SPP, Tariff, attach. V, § 8 (Definitive Planning Phase) (25.0.0), §§ 8.4, 8.10, 
8.11; see Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 191 FERC ¶ 61,230, at P 71 (2025); Sw. Power Pool, 
Inc., 193 FERC ¶ 61,171, at P 4 (2025). 

--- PAGE 23 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 4 - 
facilities.13  Specifically, SPP explains that in every year since 2021, transmission 
customers, specifically large loads of over 100 MW, have submitted requests to 
interconnect, in the form of Attachment AQ requests, in SPP totaling multiple gigawatts 
(GW).  SPP notes that this growing trend in large load interconnection request 
submissions peaked in 2022 at nearly 11 GW, but since that peak, there has been a 
relative drop to approximately 6 GW in 2024, which, according to SPP, could be due in 
part to SPP’s inability to study and interconnect large loads quickly enough to meet their 
commercial needs.14   
 
SPP contends that the emergence of large load developments, which frequently 
request transmission service within months rather than years of their intended 
commercial operation, strain the legacy regulatory frameworks, planning processes, and 
market mechanisms that were originally designed for incremental and predictable load 
growth.15  SPP explains, for example, that large load customers are requesting faster 
deployment timelines for generating facilities supporting the load compared to typical 
interconnection study timelines.16  In addition, SPP states that large loads are highly 
energy intensive and concentrated and pose unique challenges to maintaining the reliable 
and economic operation of the bulk electric transmission system.17  SPP explains that 
these challenges will continue to grow absent additional processes to address the 
reliability and operational impacts of large loads.18  SPP further contends that load-
serving entities and states in the SPP region have stressed the need to expedite the 
process of interconnecting and serving large loads.19   
 
SPP states that, to address these challenges, it proposes additional study and 
operational tools to integrate large loads into SPP’s transmission system and to provide a 
limited pathway for the expedited interconnection of generating facilities that are limited 
and targeted to serve individual large loads.  Specifically, SPP proposes to add two new 
 
13 Transmittal at 1. 
14 Id. at 8-9, figs. 2, 3. 
15 Id. at 9-10.  
16 Id. at 11. 
17 Id. at 4.  SPP explains that large loads present unique operational and reliability 
challenges because they may exhibit nonconforming load profiles, the ability to ramp 
rapidly and flutter, and sensitivity to power quality issues.  Id. at 10. 
18 Id. at 4.  
19 Id. at 3. 

--- PAGE 24 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 5 - 
processes to its Tariff:  (1) the HILL study process, set forth in new Attachment BA, 
which includes studies and operational requirements for large loads to interconnect to 
SPP’s transmission system; and (2) the HILLGA process, set forth in new Attachment 
BB, which establishes an expedited study process and new limited interconnection 
service for generating facilities that support a HILL.20 
B. 
HILL Study Process 
 
To assess and reliably manage the challenges associated with interconnecting large 
loads to its transmission system, SPP proposes to:  (1) establish a new category of load, 
termed a “HILL;” (2) establish enhanced study requirements for HILLs to enable SPP to 
assess the load’s reliability impacts on the transmission system; and (3) establish 
additional, on-going operational requirements for HILLs to ensure continued reliability of 
the transmission system.21 
1. 
Definition of HILLs 
 
SPP proposes to establish a new category of load, a HILL, which will be subject to 
the study and operational requirements of proposed Attachment BA.  SPP proposes to 
define a HILL as: 
A new commercial or industrial load, or increase in 
commercial or industrial load, at a single site connected 
through one or more shared Points of Interconnection (POIs) 
or delivery points, where such load is either (1) 10 MW or 
more if connected to the Transmission System at a voltage 
level less than or equal to 69 [kilovolts (kV)]; or (2) 50 MW 
or more if connected to the Transmission System at a voltage 
level greater than 69 kV.  An Electric Storage Resource is not 
considered a HILL.  A load may be categorized as a HILL 
after the initial effective date of Attachment BA of the Tariff.  
High Impact Large Loads must register as such in accordance 
 
20 Id. at 11. 
21 Id. 

--- PAGE 25 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 6 - 
with Attachment AE22 of the Tariff and follow the processes 
specified in Attachment BA of the Tariff.23 
 
SPP states that large loads can differ from traditional load in several ways, but 
they are primarily a facility requiring a large amount of energy at a single site.24  To 
determine what qualifies as a “large” quantity of load, SPP consulted information 
gathered by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Large Load 
Task Force, which showed that survey participants qualified large load as load greater 
than 50 MW, though it may be relative to other factors such as the voltage level at the 
interconnection.  To reflect that the size of the load may impact SPP’s transmission 
system differently at different voltage levels, SPP proposes to also include as a HILL 
loads that are at least 10 MW that connect at or below 69 kV.25  SPP explains that 
although the NERC definition of the Bulk Electric System includes only transmission 
elements of 100 kV or higher, the proposed additional 10 MW threshold is necessary due 
to the prevalence of 69 kV lines in the Eastern Interconnection portion of SPP’s 
footprint.26 
 
SPP argues that the proposed HILL definition is based on current industry 
thinking, tailored to address the topology characteristics of the SPP transmission system, 
and will be used to categorize the specific types of loads that will be subject to the 
additional studies and requirements discussed above.  SPP asserts that loads that do not 
fall within the HILL definition will be properly excluded from these additional studies 
and requirements, as will preexisting loads that may meet the definition but are currently 
operating within the SPP transmission system.  SPP argues that the proposed definition is 
 
22 Attachment AE in the Tariff contains provisions for SPP’s Integrated 
Marketplace, which includes day-ahead and real-time energy and operating reserve 
markets and a transmission congestion rights market. 
23 SPP, Tariff, pt. I, § 1 (Definitions H) (1.0.0).  Existing loads will not be 
considered HILLs or be subject to the requirements of Attachment BA unless they seek to 
increase load and otherwise meet the definitional requirements.  Transmittal at 12-13. 
24 Transmittal at 13.  Additionally, SPP asserts that large loads can have high ramp 
rates and the potential to exhibit sudden and rapid changes at unpredictable times.  Id. at 
12. 
25 Id. at 13. 
26 Id. (citing NERC, Glossary of Terms, Bulk Electric System (Oct. 1, 2025), 
https://www.nerc.com/pa/stand/glossary%20of%20terms/glossary_of_terms.pdf). 

--- PAGE 26 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 7 - 
thus narrowly tailored and targeted to identify those loads that may present a significant 
operational or reliability risk to the transmission system.27 
2. 
Enhanced Study Requirements 
 
SPP states that, under the current Tariff, when a network customer or transmission 
customer (collectively, Transmission Customer)28 applies for transmission service to 
serve a load, the load must undergo certain studies, as provided in Attachment AQ or 
Attachment AX.  SPP proposes, in new Attachment BA, to require a series of up to three 
additional studies for Transmission Customers requesting to add or modify a delivery 
point associated with a HILL.  SPP explains that these additional studies will assess the 
HILL’s impact on SPP’s transmission system.29   
 
Specifically, SPP states that all requests to add or modify a delivery point to 
accommodate a HILL will require a HILL Delivery Point Study (HDPS), which is a 
broader, more rigorous set of analyses compared to those under Attachment AQ or 
Attachment AX due to the potential for more significant impacts to the transmission 
system.30  SPP states that the HDPS will assess the impacts of the HILL delivery point on 
the transmission system using power flow and short circuit analyses, and any other 
analyses that may be appropriate in accordance with SPP Business Practice 7850.31  SPP 
states that if these additional HDPS analyses identify weaknesses on the transmission 
system caused by the interconnection of the HILL, then SPP will also perform a 
supplemental Electromagnetic Transient (EMT) study.32 
 
27 Id. at 21-22. 
28 A transmission customer is defined in part as “customers receiving transmission 
service under Part II and Part III of this Tariff.”  SPP, Tariff, pt. I, § 1 (Definitions T) 
(5.0.0).  Part III of SPP’s Tariff also refers to these customers as network customers, 
which is defined as “[a]n entity receiving transmission service pursuant to the terms of 
the Transmission Provider’s Network Integration Transmission Service [(NITS)] under 
Part III of the Tariff.”  Id. § 1 (Definitions N) (3.0.0). 
29 Transmittal at 13-17. 
30 Id. at 15.  
31 Id. at 15-16 (citing SPP, Open Access Transmission Tariff Business Practices, 
Business Practice 7850 (Delivery Point Additions, Modifications, and Retirements 
Procedures)).  
32 Id. at 15.  SPP explains that an EMT study may include EMT dynamic 
performance, sub-synchronous oscillation screening, converter-driven stability 
 

--- PAGE 27 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 8 - 
 
For all requested HILL delivery point changes, SPP proposes to provide to the 
Transmission Customer a HILL Delivery Point Study Agreement (HDPS Agreement), 
and a request for any additional data or information required for the study.33  SPP states 
that the Transmission Customer must return the HDPS Agreement, a $10,000 non-
refundable application fee, and a $100,000 deposit to SPP within 30 calendar days, unless 
otherwise agreed upon, or SPP will deem the requested HILL delivery point change to be 
withdrawn.34  Within 90 calendar days of receiving an executed HDPS Agreement, the 
study data, and deposit, SPP will complete the HDPS and issue a study report.35  If SPP 
determines that an EMT study is necessary, it will require an additional $200,000 deposit 
from the Transmission Customer.  SPP states that these deposit amounts reflect the 
estimated costs of performing the studies under new Attachment BA.  SPP explains that it 
must refund any excess deposit funds to the Transmission Customer, and the 
Transmission Customer must reimburse SPP for any unpaid study costs in excess of the 
deposit.36  
 
SPP states that the host transmission owner may also require additional analysis 
through a HILL Supplemental Load Connection Study (HSLCS), which will be 
coordinated through an agreement between the Transmission Customer and the host 
transmission owner.37  SPP explains that the host transmission owner may require 
additional information from the Transmission Customer and an advance deposit of 
$25,000 to conduct the study, but the host transmission owner may also determine that 
the HSLCS is unnecessary due to the Load Connection Study that is already required 
 
assessments, power capability and control studies, emergency power control, fault     
ride-through, power quality evaluations, and model verification.  Id. at 15 n.32.   
33 SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. BA, § 2.1.3.4 (HILL Delivery Point Study) (0.0.0).   
34 Transmittal at 15; see SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. BA, § 2.1.3.4 (HILL 
Delivery Point Study) (0.0.0), id. § 2.1.3.5 (Study Costs for HDPS) (0.0.0). 
35 SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. BA, § 2.1.3.4 (HILL Delivery Point Study) (0.0.0).   
If SPP is unable to complete the HDPS within 90 days, it will notify the Transmission 
Customer and host transmission owner and provide an estimate of the time needed to 
reach a final determination.  Id. 
36 Transmittal at 16; see SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. BA, § 2.1.3.5 (Study Costs 
for HDPS) (0.0.0). 
37 Transmittal at 16; see SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. BA, § 2.1.3.3 (HILL 
Supplemental Load Connection Study) (0.0.0). 
 

--- PAGE 28 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 9 - 
under Attachment AQ or Attachment AX, as applicable.38  SPP proposes that the host 
transmission owner must refund any excess deposit funds to the Transmission Customer, 
and the Transmission Customer must reimburse the host transmission owner for any 
unpaid study costs in excess of the deposit.39 
 
SPP contends that while the HDPS and HSLCS study procedures are consistent 
with the current study processes outlined in Attachments AQ and AX, the studies are 
more complex and detailed to allow SPP and the host transmission owner to study the 
impacts of the HILL on the transmission system.40  SPP states that the additional studies 
are necessary to capture the unique behaviors of, and risks posed by, large loads and 
ensure reliable system performance.  According to SPP, these additional studies take 
significantly more time and resources due to their scope, complexity, and computational 
demands, which, in turn, drives higher study costs compared to traditional load 
interconnection studies.41  SPP contends that the proposed study deposits are keyed to the 
anticipated costs of these HILL studies.  SPP argues that the additional requirements also 
ensure that highly speculative HILLs are discouraged from applying to be studied.42   
3. 
Ongoing Reliability Requirements 
 
SPP states that HILLs’ unique characteristics necessitate that HILLs comply with 
certain reliability requirements.  With respect to the Integrated Marketplace, SPP 
proposes that the market participant registering a HILL must:  (1) follow all non-
conforming load requirements (e.g., additional load forecast requirements, including 
providing an hourly load forecast value);43 (2) provide load data via telemetry in real 
 
38 Transmittal at 16-17; see SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. BA, § 2.1.3.3 (HILL 
Supplemental Load Connection Study) (0.0.0); id. attach. AQ, § 3 (2.0.0), § 3.1 (Load 
Connection Study), id. attach. AX, § 2 (0.0.0), § 2.1 (Load Connection Study). 
39 SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. BA, § 2.1.3.3 (HILL Supplemental Load 
Connection Study) (0.0.0). 
40 Transmittal at 17. 
41 Id.  
42 Id. at 22. 
43 SPP proposes to define non-conforming load as load that cannot be generally 
forecasted through a mathematically derived pattern using only weather, time, season, or 
other normal forecasting methods.  SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AE, § 1.1N (Definitions 
N) (5.0.1).  SPP explains that the proposed definition distinguishes non-conforming load 
from load that follows the types of patterns typically used in SPP’s load forecasts.  
 

--- PAGE 29 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 10 - 
time; (3) have remote capability to disconnect the load from the transmission system 
made available to the transmission operator; (4) have an up/down ramp rate not 
exceeding 20 MW per minute unless otherwise directed; (5) include additional 
information with registration; and (6) not have withdrawals from the transmission system 
without appropriate transmission service.44   
 
Further, in order for the HILL to provide load data in real-time, SPP proposes to 
require the transmission owner, at the Transmission Customer’s expense, to install a 
Phasor Measurement Unit (PMU) or similar equipment on the transmission owner’s side 
of the HILL interconnection prior to the HILL’s service commencement date.45  SPP 
asserts that having this data is essential to ensuring reliability of the bulk power system 
and compliance with reliability standards, because it enhances SPP’s ability to identify 
and respond to forced oscillations, monitor phase angles, assess voltage stability, and 
conduct post-event analysis.  SPP explains that HILLs may have very fast changes in 
load and, because of their size and concentrated impacts, these changes can impact the 
transmission system so quickly that they cannot be captured by conventional supervisory 
control and data acquisition systems.46   
 
Additionally, SPP proposes that the Transmission Customer will be required to 
comply with the ride-through requirement guidelines outlined in SPP’s “[HILL] Ride-
Through Requirements” document, a non-Tariff document that was separately approved 
by SPP stakeholder working groups.47  SPP states that, absent these ride-through 
requirements, HILLs have the potential to cause disturbances to the transmission system 
 
Transmittal at 19. 
44 See SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AE, § 2.22 (High Impact Large Load 
Requirements) (0.0.0); see also SPP, Tariff, attach. AE, § 2.12 (Non-Conforming Load) 
(3.0.0) (imposing specific forecasting and data requirements for non-conforming load). 
45 Transmittal at 19; see SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. BA, § 2.2.4 (Additional 
Requirements for Phasor Measurement Unit) (0.0.0).  According to SPP, PMUs supply 
high-resolution, time-synchronized measurements that enable SPP to validate models, 
monitor dynamic performance, and detect disturbances that may otherwise lead to 
instability or widespread reliability impacts.  Transmittal at 19.   
46 Transmittal at 19. 
47 Id. at 19-20.  SPP is developing ride-through requirements for stand-alone 
HILLs, which include requirements for voltage and frequency ride through.  See SPP 
documents, available at: https://www.spp.org/spp-documents-filings/?id=19845.   

--- PAGE 30 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 11 - 
and the entire bulk power system.  SPP states it will continue to modify its requirements 
as more defined requirements from NERC or the Commission become available.48 
 
SPP argues that the proposed ongoing operational requirements for HILLs are just 
and reasonable because they will afford SPP the opportunity to maintain reliable 
operation of the transmission system in light of the addition of HILLs to the system.  SPP 
states that the requirements will ensure that SPP has sufficient visibility into some of the 
most impactful loads on the system, ensure that the utilities in the RTO footprint can 
serve load in real time, and ensure that the ability to shed a HILL is available, if needed.49 
C. 
HILLGA Process 
 
SPP also proposes to implement the optional HILLGA process—a new generator 
interconnection service and related interconnection process—to facilitate the prompt 
interconnection of generating facilities that are specifically identified for and limited to 
serving a HILL.50  SPP argues that the HILLGA process is just and reasonable and meets 
the independent entity variation standard by accomplishing the goals of Order Nos. 2003, 
2023, and 2023-A by providing a path to ensure that HILLGA interconnection customers 
(HILLGA Customers) are able to interconnect to the transmission system, albeit on a 
limited basis, in a reliable, efficient, transparent, and timely manner.51   
1. 
HILLGA Eligibility and Requirements 
 
As part of the HILLGA process, SPP proposes to accept HILLGA Requests at any 
time.52  SPP contends that this proposed feature of the HILLGA process differs from the 
DISIS process and encourages more efficient capacity additions, a recognized goal of the 
 
48 Transmittal at 21 & n.58. 
49 Id. at 22. 
50 Id. at 23. 
51 Id. at 32-33 (citing Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103 at PP 822-27; Order 
No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054 at P 10). 
52 SPP proposes to define a HILLGA Request as “an Interconnection Request 
submitted, in the form specified in Appendix 1 to this Attachment BB, . . . to interconnect 
a new Generating Facility, or to increase the capacity of an Existing Generating Facility 
that is interconnected with the Transmission System.”  SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. BB, 
§ 1 (Definitions) (0.0.0).   

--- PAGE 31 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 12 - 
Commission.53  SPP also proposes to require that all HILLGA Requests include the 
following:  (1) an executed HILLGA Study Agreement and executed HDPS Agreement; 
(2) a nonrefundable application fee of $20,000; (3) a study deposit of $250,000 for 
HILLGA Requests up to 500 MW and $500,000 for HILLGA Requests over 500 MW; 
(4) demonstration of site control; (5) a definitive POI; (6) the nameplate capacity, 
maximum injection capability, and network resource deliverability of the generating 
facility; (7) a security deposit equal to $8,000/MW of the requested maximum injection 
capability; (8) reasonable evidence that the HILLGA Customer satisfies at least one of 
the listed development milestones (i.e., executed contracts, attestation that the generating 
facility is included in a state resource plan, and application for a land use permit); and (9) 
if applicable, the charging parameters and control technologies of the generating facility.  
SPP also proposes that the commercial operation date of the new generating facility or 
increase in capacity of an existing generating facility must be within five years from the 
execution date of the HILLGA Study Agreement.54  
 
SPP states that these requirements are similar to, but more stringent than, its 
existing requirements for the DISIS process.  Specifically, SPP states that the application 
fee and security deposit for HILLGA Requests are double those in the DISIS process, and 
the study deposit for HILLGA Requests can reach up to $500,000, whereas the study 
deposits for the DISIS process are capped at $250,000 regardless of the size of the 
generating facility.  Further, SPP states that the development milestone requirement for 
HILLGA Requests is at the beginning of the HILLGA process, whereas for the DISIS it 
is not until the end of the process.55  SPP contends that these more stringent requirements 
will encourage the entry of commercially viable, shovel-ready generating facilities and 
deter speculative interconnection requests.56   
 
SPP further proposes that a HILLGA Customer must submit a separate HILLGA 
Request for each generating facility associated with a HILL.  SPP states that, due to the 
limited nature of the interconnection,57 the POI identified in the HILLGA Request must 
 
53 Transmittal at 24 (citing Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054 at P 3). 
54 SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. BB, § 8 (0.0.0), § 8.2 (Execution of HILLGA 
Study Agreement). 
55 Reasonable evidence of having satisfied at least one development milestone is 
required prior to the end of Decision Point Two in the DISIS process.  SPP, Proposed 
Tariff, attach. V, § 8 (26.0.0), § 8.5.2 (Decision Point Two). 
56 Transmittal at 24-25. 
57 See infra P 66. 

--- PAGE 32 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 13 - 
be no more than two substations away from the HILL at most.58  In addition, SPP 
proposes that a generating facility may support multiple HILLs if no more than five 
substations are involved and no more than two existing transmission line segments are 
used between each substation.  SPP states that these requirements are meant to ensure 
that the proposed generating facility can support the HILL(s) in a localized area.59 
 
SPP also proposes to cap the HILLGA Customer’s generating facility’s projected 
capacity accreditation MW value, as determined pursuant to Attachment AA of the 
Tariff,60 at the requested MW load amount of the associated HILL, multiplied by the 
higher of:  (1) 110% plus the highest approved Planning Reserve Margin percentage 
effective at the time of the HILLGA Study Agreement and outlined in the SPP Planning 
Criteria; or (2) 125%.61  SPP contends that this requirement will ensure that only the 
generation capacity necessary to serve the HILL is processed through the HILLGA 
process, while recognizing the load responsible entities’ requirement to secure sufficient 
resources to cover the Planning Reserve Margin when the HILL receives long-term, firm 
transmission service.62 
2. 
HILLGA Study Process 
 
Under the HILLGA process, SPP proposes to study HILLGA Requests to 
determine whether any network upgrades are needed to accommodate the generating 
facility’s injection to the local area.  SPP proposes that HILLGA Requests, which will be 
studied serially, will not be considered higher queued than DISIS requests but will be 
treated like existing generators and incorporated into SPP’s Integrated Transmission 
Planning (ITP) models through the normal process.  SPP further notes that HILLGA 
Requests will not appear in DISIS studies until the DISIS models have been updated to 
 
58 If the HILLGA Customer’s generating facility is interconnecting to a 765 kV 
transmission line, the generating facility must be within one substation of the HILL.  
Transmittal at 27; see SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. BB, § 3 (0.0.0), § 3.1.3 (HILLGA 
Requirements). 
59 Transmittal at 26-28. 
60 New thermal generating facilities in SPP have the option of using either their 
own design performance projections or a class average forced outage rate.  New wind and 
solar generating facilities must either be submitted in time to be studied for the upcoming 
season or be assigned a default accreditation value.  See SPP, Tariff, attach. AA, § 15 
(Accredited Capacity) (4.0.0). 
61 Transmittal at 26. 
62 Id. 

--- PAGE 33 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 14 - 
new ITP models and therefore cannot drive upgrade costs or restudies for those DISIS 
clusters.  SPP contends that any upgrade costs required under the HILLGA process will 
be specific to the generating facility’s injection for the local support of the HILL and will 
have limited impacts on other requests.63   
 
To allow for more rapid study and decision-making, SPP proposes to conduct a 
system impact study for HILLGA Requests within 90 calendar days of the HILLGA 
Review Period.64  SPP further proposes that if a HILLGA Request requires a restudy due 
to the withdrawal or modification of a higher-queued HILLGA Request or a change to 
the applicable HILLGA Request’s POI, SPP will notify the HILLGA Customer of the 
need for a restudy within 30 calendar days and will complete the restudy within 60 
calendar days after the notification.65  SPP states that the HILLGA process can 
accommodate this shortened timeline because HILLGA Requests will be handled through 
a simplified, serial process, and the generating facilities will be studied only for the 
limited purpose of injecting within the local area of the HILL.66  
 
SPP proposes to tender a draft HILL Generator Interconnection Agreement 
(HILLGIA) to the HILLGA Customer at the same time it posts the HILLGA system 
impact study report.  SPP further proposes that the HILLGA Customer, the transmission 
owner, and SPP will then have 45 calendar days to negotiate the HILLGIA, unless the 
parties agree to a different timeline.  SPP proposes that it will tender a final HILLGIA to 
the HILLGA Customer within 10 business days after the negotiation process concludes.  
Within 10 business days of receiving the final HILLGIA, the HILLGA Customer must 
either execute the HILLGIA or request that it be filed unexecuted with the Commission.67 
 
63 Id. at 32. 
64 Id. at 30.  The HILLGA Review Period is the time following SPP’s receipt of 
the HILLGA Request through the time period allowed for the HILLGA Customer to cure 
any deficiencies in the request.  SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. BB, § 1 (Definitions) 
(0.0.0).  During the HILLGA Review Period, SPP will validate HILLGA Requests within 
15 calendar days.  SPP will provide written notice of any deficiencies with the request, 
and the HILLGA Customer will then have 10 business days to cure any deficiencies.  Id. 
§ 8 (0.0.0), § 8.3 (HILLGA Review Period). 
65 SPP, Proposed Tariff, § 8 (0.0.0), § 8.8 (Restudy of HILLGA System Impact 
Study). 
66 Transmittal at 30-31. 
67 Id. at 31; see SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. BB, § 11 (0.0.0), §§ 11.1 (Tender), 
11.2 (Negotiation), 11.3 (Execution and Filing). 

--- PAGE 34 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 15 - 
 
Additionally, SPP proposes to coordinate with affected system operators on any 
studies necessary to determine impacts from a HILLGA Request on an affected system.68  
SPP also proposes to determine whether a HILLGA Request has an impact on any Joint 
Targeted Interconnection Queue (JTIQ) upgrades.69  If a HILLGA Request is determined 
to impact one or more JTIQ upgrades, SPP proposes to allocate to the HILLGA Customer 
a portion of the costs of a portfolio of JTIQ upgrades based on the amount of 
interconnection service requested in the HILLGA Request.70 
 
SPP asserts that the proposed HILLGA study process represents a reasonable 
approach to address large load generation needs without disadvantaging requests in the 
DISIS queue because the modeling and queue priority of any pending DISIS 
interconnection requests will not be affected by the HILLGA process.  In addition, SPP 
asserts that the HILLGA study process will not affect the timing of any pending DISIS 
interconnection requests because the HILLGA process will be predominantly completed 
by outside consultants paid for by the HILLGA Customer through the required study 
deposits.  SPP also argues that the HILLGA framework is narrowly tailored and targeted 
to allow additional generating facilities to interconnect faster and more efficiently to the 
transmission system to support HILLs.71   
3. 
Load Limited Resource Interconnection Service Available to 
Serve HILLs 
 
SPP proposes to grant HILLGA Customers a new type of interconnection service, 
called Load Limited Resource Interconnection Service (LLRIS), which grants limited 
interconnection service solely to support the associated HILL.72  Under LLRIS, the 
maximum economic capacity operating limits of the HILLGA Customer’s generating 
 
68 Transmittal at 31; see SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. BB, § 3 (0.0.0), § 3.6 
(Coordination with Affected Systems). 
69 The JTIQ process involves a joint study between SPP and the Midcontinent 
Independent System Operator, Inc. (MISO) that aims to identify transmission network 
upgrades along the MISO-SPP seam that will enable future generating facilities to 
interconnect to the transmission grid. 
70 SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. BB, § 3 (0.0.0), § 3.6.4 (JTIQ Provisions).   
71 Transmittal at 35-38. 
72 Id. at 29; see SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. BB, § 3 (0.0.0), § 3.2 (Load Limited 
Resource Interconnection Service).  LLRIS is the only “Interconnection Product Option” 
available to HILLGA Customers in the HILLGIA.  See SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. BB, 
app. 2 (0.0.0), art. 4 (Scope of Service). 

--- PAGE 35 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 16 - 
facility cannot exceed the hourly load forecast value of the corresponding HILL except 
when directed by the SPP Reliability Coordinator to mitigate emergency conditions or as 
specified in the HILLGIA.73   
 
SPP proposes that the HILLGIA will automatically terminate under its own terms 
five years after the commercial operation date of a generating facility, which will 
correspondingly terminate any LLRIS granted by the HILLGIA.74  SPP states that if the 
HILLGA Customer wishes for its generating facility to remain interconnected to the SPP 
transmission system beyond the five-year limit of LLRIS, it must submit a separate 
interconnection request through the DISIS process.75  SPP asserts that the limited 
duration of LLRIS recognizes the importance of SPP’s DISIS process and balances use of 
that process with the desire to interconnect HILLs in an expedited manner.76   
 
SPP states that LLRIS does not convey any type of transmission service for 
generating facilities serving a HILL.77  SPP states that HILLGA Customers must obtain 
transmission service outside the HILLGA process to deliver the output from a generating 
facility to the HILL.  SPP explains that, in the short term, HILLGA Customers may 
obtain short-term service or non-firm point-to-point transmission service, based on 
available transfer capability, if the delivery point was established under Attachment 
 
73 See SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AE, § 2.22.2 (Resource Supporting a HILL) 
(0.0.0).  The maximum economic capacity operating limit, or economic MW level at or 
below a resource’s maximum normal capacity operating limit used for constraining 
energy dispatch and contingency reserve clearing during normal system conditions, is 
used within SPP’s algorithms when considering a resource’s commitment in the day-
ahead and intra-day reliability unit commitment executions in SPP’s Integrated 
Marketplace.  See SPP, Tariff, attach. AE, § 1.1M (Definitions), id. § 5.2.2 (Day-Ahead 
Reliability Unit Commitment Execution), ); id. § 6.1.2 (Intra-Day Reliability Unit 
Commitment Execution). 
74 Transmittal at 36; see SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. BB, app. 2 (0.0.0), art. 2.2 
(Term of Agreement). 
75 Transmittal at 5, 29. 
76 Id. at 36. 
77 Id. at 20; see SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. BB, §1 (Definitions) (0.0.0) (defining 
LLRIS); see also SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. BB, app. 2 (0.0.0), art. 4.4 (“The 
execution of this HILLGIA does not constitute a request for, nor the provision of, any 
transmission delivery service under Transmission Provider’s Tariff, and does not convey 
any right to deliver electricity to any specific customer or Point of Delivery.”). 

--- PAGE 36 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 17 - 
AX.78  SPP explains that, to serve a HILL on a long-term basis, HILLGA Customers 
must obtain long-term point-to-point transmission service or NITS through the Aggregate 
Transmission Service Study process under Attachment Z1 of the Tariff.79  SPP notes that, 
to obtain NITS, the HILLGA Customer must also change its generation injection rights 
from LLRIS to Energy Resource Interconnection Service (ERIS) or Network Resource 
Interconnection Service (NRIS) through SPP’s GIP.80 
III. 
Notice of Filing and Responsive Pleadings 
 
Notice of SPP’s filing was issued on October 27, 2025, with interventions and 
protests due on or before November 14, 2025 at 5:00 PM EST. 
 
Timely notices of intervention were filed by the Louisiana Public Service 
Commission, the Missouri Public Service Commission, and the Public Utility 
Commission of Texas.  Timely motions to intervene were filed by:  American Clean 
Power Association and Advanced Power Alliance, jointly; American Electric Power 
Service Corporation (AEP), on behalf of its affiliates Public Service Company of 
Oklahoma, Southwestern Electric Power Company, AEP Oklahoma Transmission 
Company, Inc., and AEP Southwestern Transmission Company, Inc.; Arevon Energy, 
Inc.; Basin Electric Power Cooperative; Calpine Corporation; City Utilities of 
Springfield, Missouri; Constellation Energy Generation, LLC; EDF Power Solutions, 
Inc.; Electric Power Supply Association; The Empire District Electric Company; Evergy 
Companies;81 Geronimo Power, LLC; GridStor LLC; Kansas Electric Power 
Cooperative, Inc.; Longroad Energy Holdings, LLC; LS Power Development, LLC; 
Monitoring Analytics, LLC, acting in its capacity as the Independent Market Monitor for 
PJM; Natural Resources Defense Council and Sustainable FERC Project, jointly; 
NextEra Energy Resources, LLC; Oklahoma Gas and Electric Company (OG&E); 
Omaha Public Power District; Orion Renewable Energy, LLC; Sierra Club; Sunflower 
Electric Power Corporation; Triple Oak Power LLC; Tri-State Generation and 
Transmission Association, Inc.; Western Farmers Electric Cooperative; and Xcel Energy 
Services Inc. (Xcel), on behalf of its affiliate Southwestern Public Service Company 
(SPS).   
 
78 Transmittal at 29. 
79 Id. at 29-30. 
80 Id. at 29-30. 
81 Evergy Companies include the following subsidiaries of Evergy, Inc.:  Evergy 
Kansas Central, Inc.; Every Metro, Inc.; and Evergy Missouri West, Inc. 

--- PAGE 37 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 18 - 
 
On November 4, 2025, Eolian, L.P. (Eolian) filed a motion for extension of time 
to submit interventions and comments.  On November 7, 2025, the SPP Transmission 
Owner Group (SPP TO Group)82 submitted an answer opposing the motion.  On 
November 12, 2025, the motion for extension of time was denied.83 
 
Timely motions to intervene and comments in support of SPP’s filing were filed 
by:  Advanced Energy United (Advanced Energy); Eolian; ITC Great Plains, LLC (ITC 
Great Plains); Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA); and SPP Market Monitoring 
Unit (SPP MMU).  SPP TO Group filed timely comments in support of SPP’s filing.  
Enchanted Rock, LLC (Enchanted Rock) filed a timely motion to intervene and 
comments requesting that the Commission accept SPP’s filing subject to certain 
conditions. 
 
On November 17, 2025, Electricity Consumers Resource Council filed an out-of-
time motion to intervene.  On November 24, 2025, Nebraska Public Power District filed 
an out-of-time motion to intervene. 
 
On December 2, 2025, SPP TO Group filed a motion for leave to answer and 
answer.  On December 4, 2025, SPP filed a motion for leave to answer and answer.  On 
December 9, 2025, Eolian filed a motion for leave to answer and answer.  On December 
10, 2025, Enchanted Rock filed a motion for leave to answer and answer. 
A. 
Comments and Answers 
1. 
Comments 
a. 
General Comments in Support 
 
Several commenters argue that SPP’s Tariff revisions to implement the HILL and 
HILLGA processes are just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or 
preferential.84  Commenters assert that SPP’s proposal provides a faster process for 
interconnecting large loads and generators serving those loads.85  Commenters also 
 
82 SPP TO Group includes:  AEP, Evergy Companies, OG&E, and Xcel, on behalf 
of SPS. 
83 Sw. Power Pool, Inc., Notice Denying Extension of Time, Docket No.       
ER26-247-000 (issued Nov. 12, 2025). 
84 Advanced Energy Comments at 1; Eolian Comments at 3; ITC Great Plains 
Comments at 2; SEIA Comments at 4; SPP TO Group Comments at 2, 18.  
85 Advanced Energy Comments at 4, 9; Eolian Comments at 3-4; SEIA Comments 
 

--- PAGE 38 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 19 - 
contend that SPP’s proposed HILL study process appropriately addresses the unique 
operating characteristics of HILLs to ensure their reliable interconnection to SPP’s 
transmission system.86  In addition, commenters argue that the HILL reliability 
requirements will avoid adverse reliability impacts after a HILL is interconnected and 
provide proportionate and transparent tools to manage the risks that large loads pose to 
the reliability of the transmission system.87  Commenters also contend that SPP’s 
proposed higher application fees, study deposits, and financial security requirements will 
prevent speculative projects and ensure only shovel-ready projects enter the HILL study 
process.88 
 
Commenters also assert that SPP’s proposed HILLGA process addresses the need 
for new generation to serve large loads while ensuring that there are sufficient guardrails 
to avoid undue discrimination and prejudice.89  In particular, commenters contend that 
SPP’s proposal treats HILLGA Requests as existing generators and incorporates them 
into its ITP models, meaning that HILLGA Requests will not be incorporated into the 
DISIS models until after such models have been updated to reflect the new ITP models, 
which will prevent a HILLGA Request from increasing costs or restudies for 
interconnection customers in the DISIS.90  Commenters also support SPP’s proposed 
LLRIS because it does not provide transmission service, it is instead a narrower and more 
temporary interconnection service, and a HILLGA Customer will not be granted NRIS or 
ERIS unless it applies through SPP’s standard interconnection processes.91 
 
at 6; SPP TO Group Comments at 1-2.  
86 Advanced Energy United Comments at 4-5; ITC Great Plains Comments at 3-4; 
SPP TO Group Comments at 13. 
87 Advanced Energy Comments at 5; SEIA Comments at 4-5; SPP TO Group 
Comments at 6. 
88 Advanced Energy Comments at 5; SPP TO Group Comments at 15-17.  
89 Advanced Energy Comments at 6; SPP TO Group Comments at 18. 
90 Advanced Energy Comments at 8; SEIA Comments at 5; SPP TO Group 
Comments at 10, 19. 
91 Advanced Energy Comments at 7; ITC Great Plains Comments at 6-7; SEIA 
Comments at 5; SPP TO Group Comments at 8-9. 

--- PAGE 39 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 20 - 
b. 
Advanced Energy 
 
In addition to its general support for the proposal as noted above, Advanced 
Energy asserts that SPP’s proposed geographic requirements in the HILLGA process will 
minimize impacts on other interconnection customers by requiring the identification of 
the POI for the proposed generating facility and requiring that it be in close electrical 
proximity in the same area to the load.  Advanced Energy explains that studying the local 
impacts and requiring that generation only serve the HILL will aim to reduce withdrawals 
that cause additional restudies.92  Advanced Energy argues that SPP’s proposed HILLGA 
process links the generating facility with the HILL, which ensures upgrade costs are 
associated with that project, rather than passed on to other customers.  Advanced Energy 
explains that these geographic limitations will lead to fewer triggered upgrades and 
minimal impacts on other interconnection requests, while also minimizing congestion 
that could have broader adverse impacts.93 
c. 
Eolian 
 
Eolian generally supports SPP’s proposal as noted above, but states that SPP 
should clarify that non-HILLGA generating facilities may serve as designated or planned 
generation to serve a HILL for purposes of Attachments AQ and AX.94  Specifically, 
Eolian requests that SPP clarify that its Tariff revisions do not restrict non-HILLGA 
generating facilities from specifically serving a HILL for purposes of demonstrating 
adequate designated or planned generation pursuant to the relevant transmission service 
study.  Eolian asserts that such clarification would remove any doubt that SPP’s proposal 
would result in undue discrimination among HILLGA and non-HILLGA generating 
facilities that are equally technically capable of serving a HILL’s needs and supporting a 
Transmission Customer’s ability to establish transmission service for that load.95 
d. 
SEIA 
 
While SEIA generally supports SPP’s proposal as discussed above, SEIA also 
urges SPP to actively monitor and periodically report to the Commission and 
stakeholders on the effectiveness of the HILL and HILLGA processes to meet rising 
demand and support the reliable integration of new, concentrated large loads and local 
 
92 Advanced Energy Comments at 8 (citing Transmittal at 32). 
93 Id. 
94 Eolian Comments at 12. 
95 Id. 

--- PAGE 40 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 21 - 
interconnection of associated generating facilities.96  In addition, SEIA contends that it is 
essential that SPP honor its pledge to dedicate sufficient resources to continue to meet its 
obligations regarding the standard interconnection process and pending DISIS requests.97    
e. 
SPP MMU 
 
SPP MMU states that the Commission should accept SPP’s filing.  SPP MMU 
explains that it was concerned during the overall development of SPP’s proposal that 
HILLs, whether deemed conforming or non-conforming load, were not incentivized to 
submit accurate operational load forecasts.  SPP MMU explains that an increase in large 
loads on the system will only increase the current operational needs for accurate load 
forecasts to be used in the Reliability Unit Commitment process and that SPP should 
pursue future Tariff changes to address the issue.  SPP MMU contends that “requirements 
for HILLs should either immediately apply to all load meeting [SPP’s proposed] 
criterion; or there should be a reasonable near-term line-of-sight to applying [SPP’s 
proposed] requirements to existing HILLs.”98  SPP MMU states that it encourages SPP to 
re-evaluate the grandfathering of HILL requirements after implementation of its proposed 
HILL and HILLGA processes.99 
f. 
SPP TO Group 
 
As noted above, SPP TO Group supports SPP’s proposal.  SPP TO Group argues 
that interconnecting new large loads raises questions of federal and state jurisdiction.  
SPP TO Group asserts that SPP crafted its HILL proposal to avoid crossing into state 
regulation, as the proposal does not dictate terms and conditions for retail sales to end-use 
customers and, indeed, largely replicates SPP’s existing load and generation 
interconnection procedures, except with stricter requirements.100 
g. 
Enchanted Rock 
 
Enchanted Rock states that it generally supports SPP’s efforts to establish HILL 
and HILLGA Tariff provisions, which facilitate the expedited, flexible, and cost-effective 
interconnection of large loads.  Enchanted Rock, however, requests that the Commission 
 
96 SEIA Comments at 6. 
97 Id. at 6-7 (citing Transmittal at 35). 
98 SPP MMU Comments at 3. 
99 Id. 
100 SPP TO Group Comments at 20. 

--- PAGE 41 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 22 - 
direct SPP to revise its capacity accreditation limits to instead be the associated HILL’s 
requested load, multiplied by the greater of:  “[(1)] 110% plus the Planning Reserve 
Margin outlined in the HILLGA Study Agreement; or [(2)] 150%, rather than the 
currently proposed 125% value.”101  Enchanted Rock explains that it is standard industry 
practice for generation facilities to be oversized relative to their associated HILL demand 
value to build in redundancies for generator failures and that large load customers’ 
targeted availability rates of 99.9% to 99.999% requires significant oversizing of on-site 
generation, while back-up-only, on-site configurations require approximately 25% excess 
on-site capacity to ensure reliable service.102  Enchanted Rock argues that this higher 
capacity accreditation cap will ensure that many on-site power solutions are not 
unnecessarily restricted from being able to meet SPP’s proposed HILL and HILLGA 
processes’ broader goals, while also recognizing the extent to which many on-site power 
solutions must be oversized in order to meet large load customers’ availability needs in 
the short term.103 
2. 
Answers 
a. 
SPP 
 
SPP states that, apart from Enchanted Rock, all commenters support the 
Commission approving SPP’s proposal as just and reasonable and not unduly 
discriminatory or preferential.104  SPP contends that while Enchanted Rock’s comments 
request specific modifications to SPP’s proposal, Enchanted Rock does not argue that 
SPP’s proposal is unjust or unreasonable. 105  SPP argues that under FPA section 205, it 
must only show that its proposal is just and reasonable, not that it is the best approach, 
better than preferred alternatives, or even better than the current Tariff.  SPP argues that 
its proposal is just and reasonable and that the Commission should accept it.106 
 
In response to Enchanted Rock’s request to modify the capacity accreditation cap, 
SPP explains that it limited the size of HILLGA Requests in its proposal to ensure that 
 
101 Enchanted Rock Comments at 6 (citing SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. BB,         
§ 3.1.3.2) (emphasis in original). 
102 Id. at 5. 
103 Id. at 6-7. 
104 SPP Answer at 3. 
105 Id. at 3-4. 
106 Id. at 4. 

--- PAGE 42 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 23 - 
the generating facility being studied would only have injection rights, or LLRIS, 
necessary to support the HILL.  SPP asserts that this limitation prevents generating 
facilities from impacting other pending interconnection requests.107  SPP states that 
nothing in its Tariff prevents a HILLGA generating facility owner from having as much 
redundant generating capacity as it thinks is needed to support reliability.108  SPP 
explains, however, that its proposal will limit the injection rights to the quantity that is 
necessary to support the HILL.  SPP argues that its proposal allows sufficient generation 
to be built to serve the HILL in the near-term and allows sufficient generation to be 
studied to satisfy the capacity needs of the HILL after it takes firm transmission 
service.109 
 
SPP further argues that SEIA’s requested reporting requirement is not needed.110  
SPP contends that it and its stakeholders continuously monitor every service provided 
under the Tariff and that SPP will monitor the effectiveness of the HILL and HILLGA 
framework in addressing the exponential growth in large loads.111 
 
In response to Eolian, SPP states that its Tariff processes remain unchanged other 
than those proposed in its filing.112 SPP asserts that its proposal does not change the types 
of resources that are currently eligible to be studied in the processes outlined in 
Attachments AQ and AX of its Tariff.  According to SPP, any generating facility that is 
eligible to serve load through SPP’s transmission service processes today will continue to 
be eligible if the Commission approves SPP’s proposal, which includes loads that qualify 
as HILLs.  SPP asserts that its proposal does not contain any proposed Tariff language to 
the contrary and that there is no need for SPP to make any clarifications as requested by 
Eolian.113 
 
107 Id. at 6. 
108 Id. at 6-7. 
109 Id. at 7. 
110 Id. (citing SEIA Comments at 6). 
111 Id. at 8. 
112 Id. at 9 (citing Eolian Comments at 2). 
113 Id. 

--- PAGE 43 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 24 - 
b. 
SPP TO Group 
 
In response to Enchanted Rock’s comments, SPP TO Group argues that accepting 
Enchanted Rock’s proposed condition would not be a “minor modification” to SPP’s 
proposal, would subvert the fundamental understanding of SPP’s proposal, and would 
impose an entirely new rate scheme contrary to NRG.114  SPP TO Group states that the 
entire point of limiting HILLGA generators to LLRIS is to “grant[] limited 
interconnection rights solely to support the HILL, which limits both the impacts of the 
generation on SPP’s [t]ransmission [s]ystem and potential [n]etwork [u]pgrade costs.”  
SPP TO Group argues that SPP stakeholders supported and voted in favor of SPP’s 
proposal because it was narrowly tailored to limit HILLGA generators to serving a 
designated HILL.115 
3. 
Answers to Answers 
a. 
Eolian 
 
Eolian states that it requested clarification from SPP that its Tariff revisions would 
not restrict non-HILLGA generating facilities from specifically serving HILLs for the 
purposes of demonstrating adequate designated or planned resources pursuant to the 
relevant transmission study.116  Eolian asserts that SPP’s answer explained that SPP’s 
proposal does not change the types of generating facilities that are currently eligible to be 
studied in the processes outlined in Attachments AQ and AX of its Tariff, that any 
generating facility that is eligible to serve load through SPP’s transmission service 
processes today will continue to be eligible if the Commission approves SPP’s proposal, 
and that SPP’s proposal does not contain any proposed Tariff language to the contrary.117  
Eolian states that SPP’s answer satisfies Eolian’s prior request for clarification.118 
b. 
Enchanted Rock 
 
Enchanted Rock states that it recognizes SPP’s clarification in its answer that the 
HILLGA process, if approved, would not interfere with a generator’s installation of 
 
114 SPP TO Group Answer at 5 (citing NRG Power Mktg., LLC v. FERC, 862 F.3d 
108 (D.C. Cir. 2017) (NRG)). 
115 Id. at 6. 
116 Eolian Answer at 1 (citing Eolian Comments at 12). 
117 Id. (citing SPP Answer at 9). 
118 Id. 

--- PAGE 44 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 25 - 
redundant on-site capacity and, accordingly, requests that the Commission accept SPP’s 
proposal without condition.119 
IV. 
Discussion 
A. 
Procedural Matters 
 
Pursuant to Rule 214 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Procedure,        
18 C.F.R. § 385.214 (2025), the notices of intervention and timely, unopposed motions to 
intervene serve to make the entities that filed them parties to this proceeding. 
 
Pursuant to Rule 214(d) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Procedure,      
18 C.F.R. § 385.214(d) (2025), we grant Electricity Consumers Resource Council’s and 
Nebraska Public Power District’s late-filed motions to intervene given their interest in the 
proceeding, the early stage of the proceeding, and the absence of undue prejudice or 
delay. 
 
Rule 213(a)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Procedure, 18 C.F.R.    
§ 385.213(a)(2) (2025), prohibits an answer to a protest or answer unless otherwise 
ordered by the decisional authority.  We accept the answers filed by SPP TO Group, SPP, 
Eolian, and Enchanted Rock because they have provided information that assisted us in 
our decision-making process. 
B. 
Substantive Matters 
 
As discussed below, we find SPP’s proposed Tariff revisions to establish the HILL 
and HILLGA processes to be just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or 
preferential and, therefore, accept them, effective January 15, 2026, as requested, subject 
to condition,120 and direct SPP to submit a compliance filing within 30 days of the date of 
this order.    
 
SPP has shown that unprecedented growth in large loads in the SPP region 
presents significant and unique operational and planning challenges.  We find that SPP’s 
proposed HILL and HILLGA processes are a just and reasonable and not unduly 
discriminatory or preferential approach to addressing these challenges, while maintaining 
the reliable operation of SPP’s transmission system.  We also find that SPP’s proposed 
Tariff revisions implementing the HILLGA process accomplish the purposes of the 
Commission’s final rules on generator interconnection, including Order Nos. 2003 and 
 
119 Enchanted Rock Answer at 2-3 (citing SPP Answer at 7). 
120 See NRG, 862 F.3d at 114-15 (discussing the Commission’s authority to 
propose modifications to a utility’s FPA section 205 rate proposal). 

--- PAGE 45 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 26 - 
2023, by helping to ensure that interconnection customers seeking to serve HILLs in SPP 
are able to interconnect to the transmission system in a reliable, efficient, transparent, and 
timely manner.121  Therefore, we find that SPP’s proposed Tariff revisions implementing 
the HILLGA process meet the independent entity variation standard.    
1. 
HILL Process 
 
We find that SPP has demonstrated that its proposed HILL process—including the 
definition of HILLs, study requirements for HILLs, and ongoing reliability requirements 
for HILLs—is a just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or preferential 
approach for integrating Transmission Customers’ new large loads into SPP’s 
transmission system in a manner that enables SPP to maintain reliable operation of that 
system.  We find that it is reasonable to subject HILLs, as SPP proposes to define them, 
to additional study requirements and the other proposed requirements set forth in 
Attachment BA given their unique operating characteristics.  We also find that the 
voltage criterion in the proposed HILL definition recognizes that different-size loads may 
have different impacts on the transmission system depending on the voltage level at 
which they interconnect and reflects the prevalence of 69 kV transmission lines in the 
Eastern Interconnection portion of SPP’s footprint. 
 
Regarding SPP’s proposed HDPS, EMT study, and HSLCS, we find that these 
proposed study requirements for HILLs, in conjunction with the existing study 
requirements in Attachments AQ and AX of SPP’s Tariff, will help to ensure the reliable 
integration of Transmission Customers’ HILLs into SPP’s transmission system.  We find 
that the proposed study requirements for HILLs will provide SPP with information about 
their impact on SPP’s transmission system, including the transmission system’s ability to 
withstand and control disturbances by the HILL at the point of interconnection.  In 
addition, we find that the proposed study deposits reflect the estimated costs of the 
studies to be performed and will help discourage speculative HILL study requests.  
Further, refunding any excess portion of the deposit ensures Transmission Customers will 
pay only the actual study amount.  We further find that allocating the study deposits and 
study costs to the Transmission Customer requesting a delivery point modification 
associated with a HILL is consistent with the Commission’s cost causation principle.122 
 
121 Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103 at PP 26, 827; Order No. 2023, 184 FERC 
¶ 61,054 at P 1. 
122 The cost causation principle requires costs to be allocated to those who cause 
the costs to be incurred and reap the resulting benefits.  See S.C. Pub. Serv. Auth. v. 
FERC, 762 F.3d 41, 87 (D.C. Cir. 2014) (citing Nat’l Ass’n of Regul. Util. Comm’nrs v. 
FERC, 475 F.3d 1277, 1285 (D.C. Cir. 2007)). 

--- PAGE 46 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 27 - 
 
We find that the proposed ongoing reliability requirements related to HILLs, 
including, among other things, non-conforming load forecasting, PMU, and ride-through 
requirements, are also just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or preferential.  
We find that the proposed requirements will allow SPP to maintain reliable operation of 
its transmission system by increasing SPP’s visibility, providing necessary data, and 
imposing real-time operational safeguards for HILLs.  
2. 
HILLGA Process 
 
As noted above, the Commission applies an independent entity variation standard 
to evaluate RTO/ISO proposals for deviations from the Commission’s pro forma LGIP 
and pro forma LGIA.123  Under the independent entity variation standard, SPP must 
demonstrate that its proposed variations are just and reasonable and not unduly 
discriminatory or preferential and accomplish the purposes of the Commission’s final 
rules on generator interconnection, including, as relevant here, Order Nos. 2003 and 
2023.124  We grant SPP an independent entity variation for its proposed HILLGA process 
because we find that the proposed process is just and reasonable and not unduly 
discriminatory or preferential and accomplishes the purposes of Order Nos. 2003 and 
2023 to ensure that interconnection customers are able to interconnect to the transmission 
system in a reliable, efficient, transparent, and timely manner.125  As discussed further 
below, we find that SPP’s HILLGA process reasonably provides a flexible, expedited, 
and separate serial interconnection process that will facilitate the prompt interconnection 
of generating facilities that are limited to serving a HILL in the same local area.   
 
We find that the more stringent eligibility requirements for the HILLGA process, 
compared to the requirements set forth in the Commission’s pro forma LGIP, are just and 
reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or preferential because they will help deter 
speculative interconnection requests from entering the expedited interconnection process.  
Specifically, we find that the more stringent financial commitments, the obligation to 
satisfy a development milestone earlier in the process, and the requirement that 
 
123 See, e.g., Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103 at P 827; Order No. 2023,      
184 FERC ¶ 61,054 at P 1764 & n.3346. 
124 See, e.g., Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 183 FERC ¶ 61,215, at P 30 (2023) (“Under the 
independent entity variation standard, SPP must demonstrate that its proposed variations 
are just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or preferential, and accomplish the 
purposes of the Commission’s rulemakings establishing the pro forma generator 
interconnection procedures and agreements.”). 
125 See, e.g., Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054 at P 693 (“This approach 
achieves the Commission’s goals of ensuring that interconnection customers are able to 
interconnect in a reliable, efficient, transparent, and timely manner.”).   

--- PAGE 47 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 28 - 
generating facilities enter commercial operation within five years of executing the 
HILLGA Study Agreement, among other requirements, will encourage the submission of 
more commercially ready and less speculative interconnection requests.   
 
We further find that SPP’s proposed HILLGA substation and transmission line 
segment requirements are just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or 
preferential because they help to preserve the local, limited nature of SPP’s proposed 
LLRIS.  These requirements help to ensure that a HILLGA interconnection will have 
limited impacts on SPP’s transmission system by providing that the generator’s POI must 
be in the same local area as the HILL that the HILLGA Customer will serve.  Similarly, 
SPP proposes to cap the HILLGA Customer’s generating facility’s projected capacity 
accreditation value at the requested load amount of the associated HILL(s), multiplied by 
the higher of:  (1) 110% plus the highest approved Planning Reserve Margin percentage 
effective at the time of the HILLGA Study Agreement and outlined in the SPP Planning 
Criteria; or (2) 125%.126  We find that SPP’s proposed cap on the projected capacity 
accreditation value helps to ensure that only the generation capacity necessary to serve 
the HILL is studied through the HILLGA process, while recognizing that the relevant 
load responsible entity must secure sufficient resources to cover the Planning Reserve 
Margin that it will be required to carry when the HILL receives long-term, firm 
transmission service.127 
 
We also find that SPP’s proposal is just and reasonable and not unduly 
discriminatory or preferential because we agree with SPP that the “HILLGA presents a 
reasonable approach to address [the] large load generation needs without disadvantaging 
 
126 Transmittal at 26. 
127 In its comments, Enchanted Rock initially requested that the Commission 
accept SPP’s proposal but only on the condition that SPP change the second of the 
proposed values (i.e., the 125%) to 150%.  Enchanted Rock Comments at 6.  In its 
answer, however, Enchanted Rock states that SPP’s answer clarifies that the HILLGA 
proposal would not interfere with an interconnection customer’s installation of redundant 
on-site capacity to support reliability and, therefore, asks the Commission to accept SPP’s 
HILLGA proposal without condition.  Enchanted Rock Answer at 1-3.  In any event, for 
the reasons discussed above, we find SPP’s proposed cap just and reasonable, and under 
FPA section 205, SPP need not show that its proposal is the most just and reasonable 
among all possible alternatives so long as it demonstrates that the proposal is just and 
reasonable.  See, e.g., Cities of Bethany v. FERC, 727 F.2d 1131, 1136 (D.C. Cir. 1984) 
(describing the Commission’s authority under section 205 of the FPA as “limited to an 
inquiry into whether the rates proposed by a utility are reasonable—and not to extend to 
determining whether a proposed rate schedule is more or less reasonable than alternative 
rate designs.”). 

--- PAGE 48 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 29 - 
requests in the DISIS queue.”128  For instance, SPP proposes to accept HILLGA Requests 
at any time and complete the entire HILLGA process within 150 days, which is a 
significantly faster timeline than the current DISIS process, which, as designed, takes    
12 months to complete.129  At the same time, HILLGA Requests will not be considered 
higher queued than pending interconnection requests in the standard DISIS queue and 
will not appear in the DISIS models until such models have been updated to include new 
ITP models.  As a result,  the proposed Tariff revisions are designed to not drive 
increased network upgrade costs or risk of restudies for pending DISIS interconnection 
requests.  In addition, SPP states that the HILLGA process will not affect the timing of 
any pending DISIS interconnection requests because the HILLGA process will be 
predominantly completed by outside consultants paid for by the HILLGA Customer 
through the required study deposits. 
 
Regarding LLRIS, we find that SPP’s proposal is just and reasonable and not 
unduly discriminatory or preferential because it limits a HILLGA Customer to only 
serving a HILL or HILLs located in the same local area as the POI for its generating 
facility and, thus, mitigates the generating facility’s impacts on SPP’s transmission 
system.  In addition, we find that it is a reasonable component of SPP’s proposal to limit 
LLRIS to a term of five years.  Because HILLGA Customers with LLRIS have 
interconnection service that is limited to a five-year term and limited to serving specific 
HILL or HILLs, we find it reasonable that these customers are only eligible to obtain 
non-firm point-to-point and short-term point-to-point service without being studied in the 
Aggregate Transmission Service Study process or obtaining different interconnection 
service.130  We note that the expiration of LLRIS also ensures that any generating 
facilities that interconnect to the transmission system will eventually go through SPP’s 
standard interconnection procedures, including all necessary studies, if they are to be 
interconnected for longer than five years.   
 
128 Transmittal at 35. 
129 Id. at 36-37. 
130 Non-firm point-to-point transmission service includes the transmission of 
energy on an hourly, daily, weekly, or monthly basis, not to exceed one month’s 
reservation.  See SPP, Tariff, Pt. II, § 14.5 (Classification of Non-Firm Point-To-Point 
Transmission Service).  Short-term firm point-to-point transmission service is firm   
point-to-point transmission service that provides firm deliveries of capacity and energy 
from the point(s) of receipt to the point(s) of delivery with a term of less than one year.  
See also id., Pt. I, § 1.1S (Definitions); id., Pt. II, § 13.7 (Classification of Firm 
Transmission Service); id., attach. P (Transmission Service Timing Requirements). 

--- PAGE 49 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 30 - 
 
Finally, we find that SPP’s proposed HILLGA process accomplishes the purposes 
of Order Nos. 2003 and 2023 to ensure that interconnection customers are able to 
interconnect to the transmission system in a reliable, efficient, transparent, and timely 
manner.  We find that SPP’s HILLGA-related revisions, taken together, accomplish these 
purposes because they will help ensure that HILLGA Customers seeking to serve HILLs 
are able to interconnect to the transmission system in a timely manner and increase the 
speed of interconnection queue processing.131  Therefore, we find that SPP’s proposed 
Tariff revisions implementing the HILLGA process meet the independent entity variation 
standard. 
3. 
Miscellaneous Issues 
 
As noted above, SEIA asserts that the “Commission should encourage SPP to 
undertake ongoing monitoring and reporting commitments regarding its proposed 
HILLS/HILLGA processes.”132  We decline SEIA’s request because SPP has 
demonstrated that the proposed HILL and HILLGA processes are just and reasonable for 
the reasons discussed above.133  Moreover, we note that SPP asserts that it will monitor 
the effectiveness of the HILL and HILLGA processes just like it continuously monitors 
every service provided under its Tariff.134 
 
However, we note that SPP’s filing contains several ministerial errors throughout 
proposed Attachments BA and BB:  (1) incorrect usage of the acronym “HSCS” instead 
of “HSLCS” in Attachment BA section 2.1.3.3; (2) redundant wording in the following 
sentence in Attachment BA section 2.1.3.4:  “The Transmission Provider will perform a 
supplemental assessment, in addition to the studies required pursuant to Attachment AQ 
and AX of the Tariff, of the impact of a requested HILL delivery point configuration 
change on the Transmission System for the full requested term, in addition to the studies 
required in Attachment AX and Attachment AX of the Tariff”;135 (3) failure to specify  
“90-Calendar Day extension”  in the following sentence in Attachment BA, section 
2.1.3.4:  “The Transmission Provider may grant a 90-day extension for completion of 
 
131 See, e.g., Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054 at PP 4, 693. 
132 SEIA Comments at 7. 
133 See Cities of Bethany v. FERC, 727 F.2d at 1136. 
134 SPP Answer at 8. 
135 SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. BA, § 2 (0.0.0), § 2.1.3.4 (HILL Delivery Point 
Study) (emphasis added). 

--- PAGE 50 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 31 - 
such negotiations”;136 (4) inconsistent usage of the term “Transmission Owner” in 
Attachment BA section 2.2.4 and the term “Host Transmission Owner” in the remainder 
of Attachment BA; (5) inclusion of the capitalized term “High Impact Large Load 
Generation Assessment Study Procedures” in the defined term “High Impact Large Load 
Generation Assessment Request” in Attachment BB section 1, which is not defined or 
used elsewhere in Attachment BB; and (6) incorrect usage of the acronym “HILGA” 
instead of “HILLGA” in Attachment BB sections 3.4.4.1 and 4.4.  Therefore, we direct 
SPP to submit, within 30 days of the date of this order, a compliance filing that corrects 
the ministerial errors listed above. 
The Commission orders: 
 
(A) 
SPP’s proposed Tariff revisions are hereby accepted, effective January 15, 
2026, as requested, subject to condition, as discussed in the body of this order. 
(B) 
SPP is hereby directed to submit a compliance filing, within 30 days of the 
date of this order, as discussed in the body of this order. 
By the Commission.  Commissioner Rosner is concurring with a separate statement  
  attached. 
 
( S E A L ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Debbie-Anne A. Reese, 
Secretary. 
 
 
 
 
136 Id.  

--- PAGE 51 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 32 - 
Appendix – Tariff Records 
 
Southwest Power Pool, Inc. 
Open Access Transmission Tariff, Sixth Revised Volume No. 1 
 
• Table of Contents, Table of Contents (17.0.6) 
 
• Definitions H, 1 Definitions H (1.0.0) 
 
• Definitions P, 1 Definitions P (4.0.0) 
 
• Attachment J Section V, Attachment J Section V (4.0.3) 
 
• Attachment O Section I, Attachment O Section I (8.0.0) 
 
• Attachment O Section V, Attachment O Section V (9.0.0) 
 
• Attachment V Section 8, Attachment V Section 8 (26.0.0) 
 
• Attachment AE (MPL), Attachment AE Integrated Marketplace (28.0.0) 
 
• Att. AE (MPL) 1.1 N, Attachment AE (MPL) Section 1.1 N (5.0.1) 
 
• Att. AE (MPL) 2.2, Attachment AE (MPL) Section 2.2 (22.0.0) 
 
• Att. AE (MPL) 2.5, Attachment AE (MPL) Section 2.5 (1.0.0) 
 
• Att. AE (MPL) 2.22, Attachment AE (MPL) Section 2.22 (0.0.0) 
 
• Att. AE (MPL) 2.22.1, Attachment AE (MPL) Section 2.22.1 (0.0.0) 
 
• Att. AE (MPL) 2.22.2, Attachment AE (MPL) Section 2.22.2 (0.0.0) 
 
• Attachment AQ Section 1, Attachment AQ Section 1 (2.0.0) 
 
• Attachment AQ Section 3, Attachment AQ Section 3 (3.0.0) 
 
• Attachment AQ Addendum 1, Attachment AQ Addendum 1 (2.0.0) 
 
• Att. AX Section 1, Attachment AX Section 1 (1.0.0) 

--- PAGE 52 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 33 - 
 
• Att. AX Section 2, Attachment AX Section 2 (1.0.0) 
 
• Att. AX Addendum 1, Attachment AX Addendum 1 (1.0.0) 
 
• Attachment BA, Attachment BA High Impact Large Load (0.0.0) 
 
• Attachment BA TOC, Attachment BA Table of Contents (0.0.0) 
 
• Att. BA Section 1, Attachment BA Section 1 (0.0.0) 
 
• Att. BA Section 2, Attachment BA Section 2 (0.0.0) 
 
• Att. BA Section 3, Attachment BA Section 3 (0.0.0) 
 
• Attachment BB, Attachment BB High Impact Large Load Generationâ€¦ (0.0.0) 
 
• Attachment BB TOC, Attachment BB Table of Contents (0.0.0) 
 
• Att. BB Section 1, Attachment BB Section 1 (0.0.0) 
 
• Att. BB Section 2, Attachment BB Section 2 (0.0.0) 
 
• Att. BB Section 3, Attachment BB Section 3 (0.0.0) 
 
• Att. BB Section 4, Attachment BB Section 4 (0.0.0) 
 
• Att. BB Section 5, Attachment BB Section 5 (0.0.0) 
 
• Att. BB Section 6, Attachment BB Section 6 (0.0.0) 
 
• Att. BB Section 7, Attachment BB Section 7 (0.0.0) 
 
• Att. BB Section 8, Attachment BB Section 8 (0.0.0) 
 
• Att. BB Section 9, Attachment BB Section 9 (0.0.0) 
 
• Att. BB Section 10, Attachment BB Section 10 (0.0.0) 
 
• Att. BB Section 11, Attachment BB Section 11 (0.0.0) 

--- PAGE 53 ---
Docket No. ER26-247-000 
- 34 - 
 
• Att. BB Section 12, Attachment BB Section 12 (0.0.0) 
 
• Att. BB Section 13, Attachment BB Section 13 (0.0.0) 
 
• Att. BB App 1, Attachment BB Appendix 1 (0.0.0) 
 
• Att. BB App 2, Attachment BB Appendix 2 (0.0.0) 
 
• Att. BB App 3, Attachment BB Appendix 3 (0.0.0) 
 
• Att. BB App 4, Attachment BB Appendix 4 (0.0.0) 

--- PAGE 54 ---
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Southwest Power Pool, Inc. 
Docket No. 
 ER26-247-000 
 
(Issued January 14, 2026) 
 
ROSNER, Commissioner, concurring:  
 
 
Today’s order accepts SPP’s proposal to establish new study processes for new 
High Impact Large Loads (HILLs) and associated generation through the High Impact 
Large Load Generation Assessment (HILLGA).  Together, these processes will enable 
SPP to efficiently identify new large loads, expedite the interconnection of new 
generation needed to serve them, and protect the reliability of the bulk power system.  
The proposal also encourages “bring-your-own-new-generation” solutions in SPP, which 
will enable rapid interconnection of new large loads without raising costs or threatening 
electric reliability for other customers.  I concur to highlight SPP’s pragmatic steps to 
support economic growth in its footprint and call on other transmission providers across 
the country to consider similar proposals through FPA section 205 filings.   
 
The HILLs and HILLGA processes work together to pair shovel-ready generation 
with large loads and allow them to interconnect to the grid in less than half the time 
typically required for generators to clear SPP’s generator interconnection queue.  The 
secret sauce behind SPP’s proposal is Load Limited Resource Interconnection Service 
(LLRIS), a new interconnection service that limits the amount of power a generator can 
put on the SPP grid to the forecasted hourly load of the nearby large load it serves.  
Because the generator’s output is matched to the large load’s demand, the impacts of 
adding load and generation to the transmission system effectively cancel each other out, 
which minimizes the need for time-consuming transmission upgrades.  SPP’s proposal is 
grounded in physics, takes a harder look at reliability impacts of large loads on the grid 
than current practice requires, and unlocks large load opportunities while protecting other 
customers from rising bills.   
 
There are also clear parallels between SPP’s approach in its HILLs and HILLGA 
processes and the new transmission services the Commission recently directed PJM to 
create for load co-located with generation.1  While the mechanics of these approaches are 
distinct between the different regions, the practical outcome is similar: they both enable 
new generation needed to serve new large loads to connect to the grid faster and at lower 
 
1 See 193 FERC ¶ 61,217 at PP 200-03; 234. 

--- PAGE 55 ---
 
cost. The common thread is a recognition that when generation is paired with load that is 
physically proximate, the impacts on the transmission system are lower than they are in 
the status quo, in which large loads and generation are planned separately.    
 
I also note that SPP’s proposal is another step towards realizing the goals of 
Secretary Wright’s Large Load ANOPR proposal in three important ways: first, it pairs 
new large loads and new generation to connect them to the grid rapidly and reliably;2 
second, it minimizes costs borne by other customers;3 and third, it does so through an 
FPA section 205 filing, rather than waiting on the Commission to require such action.4 
 
Today’s order is a productive step toward facilitating the energy needed to win the 
AI race, bring back American manufacturing, and deliver the reliable and affordable 
energy on which families and small businesses depend.  I encourage other transmission 
providers to take note of the innovative approach SPP proposed in this filing, and to 
consider proposing similar solutions tailored to meet the needs within their own 
footprints.  
 
For these reasons, I respectfully concur. 
 
David Rosner 
Commissioner 
 
 
 
2 See U.S. Department of Energy, Secretary of Energy, Direction that the 
Commission Initiate Rulemaking Procedures and Proposal Regarding the Interconnection 
of Large Loads Pursuant to the Secretary’s Authority Under Section 403 of the 
Department of Energy Organization Act (Oct. 23, 2025) at P 20. 
3 See Id. at P 25. 
4 See Id. at P 32.  

--- PAGE 56 ---
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENT B 
CPP ORDER 

--- PAGE 57 ---
 
194 FERC ¶ 61,192 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Before Commissioners:  Laura V. Swett, Chairman; 
                                        David Rosner, Lindsay S. See, 
                                        Judy W. Chang, and David LaCerte. 
 
Southwest Power Pool, Inc. 
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 
ER26-414-001 
 
ORDER ACCEPTING TARIFF REVISIONS, SUBJECT TO CONDITION 
 
(Issued March 13, 2026) 
 
 
On November 3, 2025, as amended on January 12, 2026, pursuant to section 205 
of the Federal Power Act (FPA)1 and part 35 of the Commission’s regulations,2 
Southwest Power Pool, Inc. (SPP) submitted proposed revisions to its Open Access 
Transmission Tariff (Tariff) to establish a Consolidated Planning Process (CPP) 
framework to streamline its regional transmission planning and generator interconnection 
processes.3  As discussed below, we accept SPP’s proposed Tariff revisions, effective 
March 1, 2026, as requested, subject to condition. 
I. 
Background  
A. 
Relevant Commission Rulemakings 
1. 
Order Nos. 890 and 1000 Transmission Planning and Cost 
Allocation Principles 
 
The Commission issued Order No. 890 to address identified deficiencies in the  
pro forma Open Access Transmission Tariff.4  Among other reforms, the Commission 
 
1 16 U.S.C. § 824d. 
2 18 C.F.R. pt. 35 (2025). 
3 See Appendix for Tariff records accepted in this order. 
4 Preventing Undue Discrimination & Preference in Transmission Serv., Order 
No. 890, 118 FERC ¶ 61,119, order on reh’g, Order No. 890-A, 121 FERC ¶ 61,297 
(2007), order on reh’g, Order No. 890-B, 123 FERC ¶ 61,299 (2008), order on reh’g, 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 58 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 2 - 
required all public utility transmission providers’ local transmission planning processes to 
satisfy nine transmission planning principles, including:  (1) coordination; (2) openness; 
(3) transparency; (4) information exchange; (5) comparability; (6) dispute resolution;  
(7) regional participation; (8) economic planning studies; and (9) cost allocation for new 
projects.   
 
In Order No. 1000, the Commission included reforms intended to ensure that the 
transmission planning and cost allocation requirements embodied in the pro forma Open 
Access Transmission Tariff could support the development of more efficient or cost-
effective transmission facilities.5  The reforms in Order No. 1000 included:  (1) regional 
transmission planning; (2) transmission needs driven by public policy requirements; 
(3) nonincumbent transmission developer reforms; (4) regional and interregional cost 
allocation, including a set of principles for each category of cost allocation; and 
(5) interregional transmission coordination.6  Relevant here, the Commission required 
each public utility transmission provider to participate in a regional transmission planning 
process that complied with seven of the nine Order No. 890 transmission planning 
principles.7  Moreover, the Commission required public utility transmission providers to 
amend their tariffs to describe procedures that provide for the consideration of 
transmission needs driven by public policy requirements in their regional transmission 
planning processes.8  The Commission also required each public utility transmission 
 
Order No. 890-C, 126 FERC ¶ 61,228, order on clarification, Order No. 890-D,  
129 FERC ¶ 61,126 (2009). 
5 Transmission Planning & Cost Allocation by Transmission Owning & Operating 
Pub. Utils., Order No. 1000, 136 FERC ¶ 61,051, at P 3 (2011), order on reh’g, Order 
No. 1000-A, 139 FERC ¶ 61,132, order on reh’g & clarification, Order No. 1000-B,  
141 FERC ¶ 61,044 (2012), aff’d sub nom. S.C. Pub. Serv. Auth. v. FERC, 762 F.3d 41 
(D.C. Cir. 2014). 
6 Order No. 1000, 136 FERC ¶ 61,051 at P 12. 
7 Id. PP 146, 150-151.  These seven principles are (1) coordination; (2) openness; 
(3) transparency; (4) information exchange; (5) comparability; (6) dispute resolution; and 
(7) economic planning.  The Commission excluded the regional participation and cost 
allocation Order No. 890 transmission planning principles because it “address[ed] 
interregional transmission coordination and cost allocation for transmission facilities 
selected in a regional transmission plan for purposes of cost allocation elsewhere in [the] 
Final Rule.”  Id.  P 151 n.141.  
8 Id. P 203.  In Order No. 1000, the Commission defined Public Policy 
Requirements as requirements established by local, state, or federal laws or regulations 
(i.e., enacted statutes passed by the legislature and signed by the executive and 
 

--- PAGE 59 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 3 - 
provider to have in its tariff a method, or set of methods, for allocating the costs of any 
new transmission facility selected in the regional transmission plan for purposes of cost 
allocation.9 
2. 
Order Nos. 2003 and 2023 Generator Interconnection 
Procedures 
 
Under the Commission’s pricing policy for interconnection-related network 
upgrades adopted in the Order No. 2003 pro forma large generator interconnection 
agreement, the costs of network upgrades that would not be needed but for the 
interconnection (i.e., “but for” costs) are funded initially by the interconnection customer 
as construction costs are incurred, unless the transmission provider elects to fund the 
construction itself.10  When the interconnection customer initially funds the network 
 
regulations promulgated by a relevant jurisdiction, whether within a state or at the federal 
level).  Id. P 2.  In Order No. 1000-A, the Commission clarified that public policy 
requirements include local laws and regulations passed by a local governmental entity, 
such as a municipal or county government.  Order No. 1000-A, 139 FERC ¶ 61,132  
at 319.  
9 Order No. 1000, 136 FERC ¶ 61,051 at PP 558, 690.  In Order No. 1000, the 
Commission required each public utility transmission provider to demonstrate that its 
regional cost allocation method satisfies six regional cost allocation principles.  Id. P 603.  
Cost Allocation Principle 1 requires that the cost of transmission facilities be allocated in 
a manner that is at least roughly commensurate with the estimated benefits.  Id. P 622.  
Cost Allocation Principle 2 requires that those that receive no benefit from transmission 
facilities, either at present or in a likely future scenario, not be involuntarily allocated any 
of the costs of those transmission facilities.  Id. P 637.  Cost Allocation Principle 3 
requires that, if a benefit-to-cost ratio is used, it cannot exceed 1.25 to 1.  Id. P 646.  Cost 
Allocation Principle 4 requires that costs of a transmission facility selected in a regional 
transmission plan be allocated solely within the transmission planning region.  Id. P 657.  
Cost Allocation Principle 5 requires that the cost allocation method and data requirements 
for determining benefits and identifying beneficiaries for a transmission facility must be 
transparent, with adequate documentation to allow a stakeholder to determine how they 
were applied to a proposed transmission facility.  Id. P 668.  Cost Allocation Principle 6 
specifies that a transmission planning region may have a different cost allocation method 
for different types of transmission facilities, but there can be only one cost allocation 
method for each type and there cannot be a type of transmission facility that has no 
regional cost allocation method applied to it.  Id. P 685.     
10 Standardization of Generator Interconnection Agreements & Procs., Order 
No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103, at PP 21, 22 (2003), order on reh’g, Order No. 2003-A, 
106 FERC ¶ 61,220, order on reh’g, Order No. 2003-B, 109 FERC ¶ 61,287 (2004), 
 

--- PAGE 60 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 4 - 
upgrades, the interconnection customer is then entitled to reimbursement of the network 
upgrade costs with interest through credits against the charges at the rolled-in rates  
for transmission service taken to deliver the output of the generator, subject to full 
reimbursement within 20 years, and the costs of the network upgrades are included  
in the transmission owner’s rolled-in transmission rates as the transmission owner 
reimburses the interconnection customer.11    
 
Additionally, in Order No. 2003, the Commission allowed an independent 
transmission provider (i.e., regional transmission organization (RTO) and independent 
system operator (ISO)) flexibility to propose alternative interconnection pricing 
mechanisms, subject to Commission approval, under the independent entity variation 
standard.12  Specifically, an RTO/ISO could propose to require the interconnection 
customer to participant fund network upgrades (i.e., to directly assign network upgrade 
costs to the interconnection customer) in addition to charging the interconnection 
customer the rolled-in transmission rate, only where well-defined rights to capacity  
made available by such network upgrades are provided to the interconnection customer.13  
As relevant here, the Commission has approved the use of participant funding for 
interconnection-related network upgrades in SPP, with interconnection customers eligible 
to receive incremental long-term congestion rights (ILTCR)14 as compensation.15    
 
order on reh’g, Order No. 2003-C, 111 FERC ¶ 61,401 (2005), aff’d sub nom. Nat’l 
Ass’n of Regul. Util. Comm’rs v. FERC, 475 F.3d 1277 (D.C. Cir. 2007).   
11 Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103 at P 694. 
12 Id. P 698. 
13 Id. PP 699-700. 
14 An ILTCR is an instrument that entitles an upgrade sponsor or a Joint Targeted 
Interconnection Queue (JTIQ) generator interconnection customer to a transmission 
congestion right that results from the incremental available transfer capability created 
from the upgrade, which is awarded during SPP’s annual ILTCR allocation process.  
SPP, Tariff, pt.1, I (Definitions) (4.0.1).  
15 See Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 122 FERC ¶ 61,060, at P 30 (2008) (accepting as 
consistent with participant funding and the Commission’s interconnection pricing policy 
SPP’s proposal to provide interconnection customers with reimbursement for funding 
network upgrades); Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 152 FERC ¶ 61,034, at P 48 (2015) (accepting 
SPP’s proposal to award ILTCRs for transmission upgrades to any party that funds those 
transmission upgrades). 

--- PAGE 61 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 5 - 
 
In Order No. 2023, the Commission required all public utility transmission 
providers to revise their standard generator interconnection procedures and agreements  
to ensure that interconnection customers are able to interconnect to the transmission 
system in a reliable, efficient, transparent, and timely manner, and to prevent undue 
discrimination.16  In Order No. 2023, the Commission adopted a comprehensive package 
of reforms in three general categories:  (1) reforms to implement a first-ready, first-served 
cluster study process; (2) reforms to increase the speed of interconnection queue 
processing; and (3) reforms to incorporate technological advancements into the 
interconnection process. 
B. 
SPP’s Transmission Planning and Generator Interconnection 
Processes 
 
SPP plans and manages the expansion of its transmission system to satisfy 
reliability, economic, and public policy needs through the Integrated Transmission 
Planning (ITP) process under Attachment O of its Tariff.  SPP conducts an annual ITP 
Assessment that reviews the transmission system for a 10-year planning horizon, 
identifies solutions to meet identified criteria, and assesses the cost-effectiveness of 
proposed solutions.17  At the conclusion of the process, SPP prepares the annual ITP 
Assessment report, which includes a list of the proposed transmission projects for review 
and approval, as well as an explanation of which transmission needs driven by public 
policy requirements were evaluated for potential solutions and why other transmission 
needs driven by public policy requirements were not evaluated.   
 
SPP allocates the costs of ITP upgrades that are approved for construction by the 
SPP Board of Directors based on SPP’s Highway/Byway cost allocation method.18  
Under this method, SPP allocates the costs of transmission facilities selected in SPP’s 
transmission planning processes (base plan upgrades)19 to transmission customers in 
 
16 Improvements to Generator Interconnection Procs. & Agreements, Order  
No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054, order on reh’g, 185 FERC ¶ 61,063 (2023), order on 
reh’g, Order No. 2023-A, 186 FERC ¶ 61,199, errata notice, 188 FERC ¶ 61,134 (2024).     
17 SPP, Tariff, attach. O, § III (ITP Assessment) (14.0.0), § III.2 (Preparation of 
the Integrated Transmission Planning Assessment). 
18 Id., attach. J, § III (Base Plan Upgrades) (21.0.0). 
19 A base plan upgrade refers to an upgrade “included in and constructed pursuant 
to the SPP Transmission Expansion Plan in order to ensure the reliability of the 
Transmission System” and includes upgrades required for new or changed designated 
resources, upgrades due to retirement of a resource, and upgrades approved as part of 
SPP’s ITP.  Id., pt. I, § 1 B (Definitions B) (8.1.0), Base Plan Upgrade. 

--- PAGE 62 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 6 - 
individual SPP pricing zones, subregions, the entire SPP region, or a combination thereof, 
based on the voltage level and location of the specific facility.20  Specifically, SPP 
allocates costs for transmission facilities as follows:  (1) for facilities at 300 kV or above 
(Highway facilities), 100% of the costs are allocated on a regional, postage stamp basis 
based on load ratio share; (2) for facilities above 100 kV and below 300 kV (Byway 
facilities), SPP allocates 33% of the costs on a regional, postage stamp basis and 67% of 
the costs to the subregion in which the facilities are located;21 and (3) for facilities at 100 
kV or below, SPP allocates all costs to the zone where the facilities are located. 
 
In addition to the ITP, SPP is required to perform a 20-Year Assessment at least 
once every five years with the objective of developing a long-range extra high voltage 
(300 kV and above) (EHV) transmission road map for the SPP region.22  The 20-Year 
Assessment produces an informational report of possible transmission upgrades that may 
be used in future planning studies by looking at a longer planning horizon. 
 
In contrast, through SPP’s generator interconnection process, SPP studies specific 
interconnection requests for proposed generating facilities to determine their impacts on 
the existing transmission system, including identifying any interconnection-related 
network upgrades and interconnection facilities that are required to interconnect the 
generating facility reliably.23  Under SPP’s existing generator interconnection procedures 
(GIP) contained in Attachment V of its Tariff, interconnection customers submit 
interconnection requests during an annual 11-month open window.  SPP conducts a 
three-stage Definitive Interconnection System Impact Study (DISIS):  (1) DISIS Phase 
One, which involves a cluster study consisting of a steady-state thermal and voltage 
 
20 Id., attach. J, § III (21.0.0); Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 193 FERC ¶ 61,244 (2025). 
21 The Commission accepted SPP’s proposal to modify the cost allocation for 
future Byway facilities under Schedule 11 of the Tariff by replacing the zonal allocation 
under the Highway/Byway cost allocation method with a Subregional allocation.  Sw. 
Power Pool, Inc., 193 FERC ¶ 61,244. 
22 SPP, Tariff, attach. O, § IV (Other Planning Studies) (11.0.0), § IV.2(a) (20-
Year Assessments). 
23 Interconnection facilities include all facilities and equipment located between 
the interconnection customer’s generating facility and the point of interconnection, 
including any modifications, additions, or upgrades that are necessary to physically and 
electrically interconnect the generating facility to the transmission system.  Network 
upgrades are additions, modifications, and upgrades to the transmission system required 
at or beyond the point at which the interconnection facilities connect to the transmission 
system to accommodate the interconnection of the generating facility.  Id., attach. V, § 1 
(Definitions) (21.0.1).  

--- PAGE 63 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 7 - 
analysis; (2) DISIS Phase Two, which involves a cluster study consisting of a steady-state 
thermal and voltage analysis and a transient and dynamic stability and short-circuit 
analysis; and (3) the interconnection facilities study, consisting of a refresh of the cluster 
analysis followed by an individual facilities study.24  DISIS Phases One and Two are 
each followed by a decision point, which provides interconnection customers with 
opportunities to evaluate study results and decide whether to proceed with or withdraw 
their interconnection requests, including posting financial security to continue.  
Interconnection customers are allocated the cost of system network upgrades necessary 
for interconnection of their generating facilities, based on a proportional impact 
analysis,25 and may elect to receive ILTCRs as compensation.  Interconnection customers 
are also directly assigned the cost of any necessary interconnection facilities identified in 
the study process.  
II. 
Filing 
A. 
Need for CPP 
 
SPP explains that its region is experiencing historic load growth and challenges 
interconnecting generation and load in a timely manner, with fewer generation resources 
and transmission facilities being built than needed to serve the future needs of the 
region.26  SPP states that the primary causes of delays in its generator interconnection 
process appear to be cost and timing uncertainty and, relatedly, the significant costs 
associated with interconnection-related network upgrades that leads to high rates of 
withdrawal and slower interconnection.27  SPP explains that there is currently no 
meaningful signal or requirement for developers to locate generating facilities in optimal 
locations from a transmission capability perspective, leading to submission of multiple 
interconnection requests to identify optimal locations and resulting in disruptive 
withdrawals from the interconnection queue.  Furthermore, SPP contends that separate, 
parallel processes for regional transmission planning and generator interconnection can 
lead to suboptimal transmission and cost allocation outcomes.28  SPP also argues that 
these separate processes create an incentive to avoid being the first to cause the need for a 
 
24 Id., attach. V, § 8 (Definitive Planning Phase) (26.0.0). 
25 Id., attach. V, § 4 (Interconnection Request Evaluation Process) (13.0.0), § 4.2.2 
(Cost Allocation for Interconnection Facilities and Network Upgrades). 
26 Transmittal at 15-16. 
27 Id. at 17-18. 
28 Id. at 18-19, 43; SPP, Filing, Ex. SPP-0001 (Testimony of Casey Cathey) at 20-
23 (Cathey Test.). 

--- PAGE 64 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 8 - 
network upgrade, which can lead to transmission costs being allocated in a way that  
does not fully capture all intended beneficiaries, as well as result in load and generation 
independently funding suboptimal network upgrades.  
 
SPP states that as load growth outpaces transmission infrastructure and new 
generator interconnections, these inefficiencies have the potential to contribute to 
resource adequacy and reliability risks for the entire SPP region.29  SPP also argues that 
the piecemeal build-out of the transmission system, as opposed to a holistic approach  
that proactively plans for the transmission needs of load and generation, can have a 
compounding effect on transmission rates, ultimately resulting in higher future costs for 
load.   
B. 
CPP Proposal 
 
SPP explains that it developed the proposed CPP framework as an innovative 
approach to regional transmission planning and generator interconnection to meet the 
aforementioned challenges.30  SPP explains that the CPP will combine SPP’s regional 
transmission planning and generator interconnection processes into a consolidated, 
holistic assessment of regional transmission needs to plan for and benefit both load and 
interconnection customers through the development of a robust regional transmission 
system to serve combined load and generation needs.31  SPP contends that, by 
streamlining the regional transmission planning and generator interconnection processes 
under a unified framework, its proposed CPP framework will ensure that the “right” 
transmission upgrades are built at the “right” time and costs are shared based on the 
benefits provided by the solutions that emerge from the transmission planning process.32  
SPP states that the proposed CPP framework is the product of collaborative efforts by 
SPP, its Board of Directors, SPP Regional State Committee, and stakeholders and notes 
that the CPP proposal was unanimously approved by multiple SPP stakeholder working 
groups as well as the SPP Regional State Committee.33 
 
 
 
29 Transmittal at 19-20. 
30 Id. at 2-3. 
31 Id. at 2-3, 20-21. 
32 Id. at 20. 
33 Id.; Cathey Test. at 35-36. 

--- PAGE 65 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 9 - 
 
To implement the proposed CPP framework, SPP proposes revisions to its Tariff 
to combine SPP’s regional transmission planning and generator interconnection processes 
into a single, integrated process under a new Attachment AY of its Tariff.34  SPP’s 
proposed Attachment AY provides an overview of the CPP and relevant definitions, 
outlines roles and responsibilities, and contains both the CPP Transmission Assessment 
Procedures and Generator Connection Procedures (GCP).35  
 
SPP explains that the CPP will consist of a series of transmission assessments 
conducted over a three-year CPP planning cycle, in which SPP will evaluate the 
transmission system’s long-term performance in recognition of regional transmission 
planning and future generation needs.36  The CPP will consist of two forward-looking 
planning assessments, a 20-Year Assessment (CPP-20) and 10-Year Assessment (CPP-
10).  SPP explains that the CPP-20 will be used to determine the generalized rates for 
interconnection development contribution (GRID-C) and planned interconnection 
locations (PIL) for the CPP planning cycle, two key CPP features.  SPP explains that the 
Interconnection Cluster Study (ICS) will be performed as part of the annual CPP-10, and 
the outcomes of the ICS will be considered in the regional planning assessment phase of 
the CPP-10, which will recommend transmission system upgrades for inclusion in the 
regional transmission plan for construction.  As discussed further below, the proposed 
GCP Attachment AY, section V contains provisions regarding the ICS process, including 
pro forma study agreements and pro forma generator interconnection agreements (GIA) 
in appendices.37  
 
34 SPP states that once the 20-Year Assessment, ITP, and DISIS sunset, they will 
be removed from the SPP Tariff.  Transmittal at 78, n.280. 
35 Id. at 78-79; SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY (CPP) (0.0.0). 
36 Transmittal at 21-23; SPP, Filing, Ex. SPP-0002 (Testimony of Sarmad 
Raheem) at 4 (Raheem Test.) (citing SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § I (Overview of 
the Consolidated Planning Process) (0.0.0)).  
37 SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § V (Generator Connection Procedures) 
(0.0.0); id., app. 1 (Two-Party Affected System Study Agreement) (0.0.0); id., app. 2 
(Multi-Party Affected System Study Agreement) (0.0.0); id., app. 3 (Consolidated 
Planning Process Generator Interconnection Study Agreement) (0.0.0); id., app. 4 
(Compensation Agreement for Interconnection Customer with CPP Generator 
Interconnection Agreement) (0.0.0); id., app. 6 (CPP Generator Interconnection 
Agreement (CPP GIA)) (0.0.0); id., app. 7 (Interconnection Procedures for a Wind 
Generating Plant) (0.0.0); id., app. 9 (Certification Codes and Standards) (0.0.0);  
id., app. 12 (Consent for Assignment of CPP GIA) (0.0.0); id., app. 13 (CPP Generator 
Interconnection Agreement (For use when Western-UGP is a Party to the CPP GIA, as 
the Transmission Owner)) (0.0.0); id., app. 18 (Multi-Party Affected System Facilities 
 

--- PAGE 66 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 10 - 
 
SPP also proposes modifications to several existing Tariff sections to transition to 
the CPP framework, including Attachments J (Recovery of Cost Associated with New 
Facilities), L (Treatment of Revenues), O (Transmission Planning Process), V (GIP), and 
AQ (Delivery Point Assessment Process), as well as Schedule 11 (Base Plan Zonal 
Charge).  In addition, SPP proposes revisions to definitions contained in Part I (Common 
Service Provisions) of its Tariff and to incorporate the CPP into sections 25 
(Compensation for Transmission Services) and 34 (Rates and Charges) of the Tariff.   
 
SPP requests an effective date of March 1, 2026, for the proposed Tariff 
revisions.38    
C. 
CPP Benefits 
 
SPP states that the CPP is expected to provide wide and broad benefits to load, 
interconnection customers, other stakeholders, and the entire SPP community.39  Among 
the specific benefits, SPP identifies reliability benefits through coordinated and timely 
investment in multi-value transmission upgrades that will enhance the transmission 
system’s ability to support both existing and future load reliably, especially under 
scenarios with high demand growth and resource addition.  SPP also states that the CPP 
framework creates predictable, equitable cost allocation for interconnection customers, 
enabling improved financial planning and siting – particularly in regions where existing 
infrastructure is limited or absent.  SPP also asserts that the CPP will enable proactive 
planning that will support more efficient and cost-effective transmission upgrades, 
reducing long-term congestion and overall system costs and facilitating cost-effective 
generation siting.  As for transmission planning, SPP states that the CPP is expected to 
reduce planning process costs by more than $3 million annually, while creating more 
equitable cost sharing for transmission upgrades, increasing economic benefits, opening 
new markets for energy, and enhancing reliability and grid resiliency. 
 
Among the benefits to load, SPP states that the CPP aims to support continued 
regional economic growth and development through increased regional investment.40  
With more energy and capacity interconnecting in a timelier manner, SPP explains, load 
is likely to see benefits through reduced overall energy prices, while maintaining resource 
 
Construction Agreement) (0.0.0).  SPP proposed to also include appendices 5, 8, 10, 11, 
14, 15, and 16 as reserved for future use to accommodate the CPP GIA process.  SPP 
Transmittal at 101.  
38 Transmittal at 2. 
39 Id. at 41-42. 
40 Id. at 42-43. 

--- PAGE 67 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 11 - 
adequacy margins and reducing the risk of reliability events.  SPP also states that load 
will benefit from the CPP’s optimization of transmission solutions that minimize or 
prevent the risks from piecemeal transmission system build-out. 
 
SPP also points to benefits from the CPP that are shared by both load and 
interconnection customers.41  In particular, SPP states that process efficiencies from 
combining transmission planning and generator interconnection will allow SPP to 
redirect resources to technical analysis and stakeholder collaboration, improving overall 
process quality and enhancing the transparency and inclusiveness of SPP’s planning 
process.  SPP states that more efficient transmission buildouts that serve multiple 
purposes will reduce overall system costs and minimize the risk of stranded or 
underutilized assets.  SPP also argues that the states within its footprint will see 
significant economic and competitive opportunities because the CPP is designed to 
facilitate the interconnection of large and new types of loads to the SPP transmission 
system through a more robust transmission system and the interconnection of an 
increasing pool of available generation to serve those new loads. 
III. 
Notice of Filings and Responsive Pleadings 
 
Notice of SPP’s filing was published in the Federal Register, 90 Fed. Reg. 53279 
(Nov. 25, 2025), with interventions and protests due on or before November 24, 2025. 
 
A notice of intervention was filed by Louisiana Public Service Commission.  
Timely motions to intervene were filed by:  Advanced Energy United; American Clean 
Power Association and Advanced Power Alliance (APA); American Electric Power 
Service Corporation, on behalf of its affiliates Public Service Company of Oklahoma, 
Southwestern Electric Power Company, AEP Oklahoma Transmission Company, Inc., 
and AEP Southwestern Transmission Company, Inc.; Arevon Energy, Inc.; Calpine 
Corporation; City Utilities of Springfield, Missouri; EDF Power Solutions, Inc.; Evergy 
Kansas Central, Inc., Evergy Metro, Inc., and Evergy Missouri West, Inc. (collectively, 
the Evergy Companies); Geronimo Power, LLC; ITC Great Plains, LLC (ITC Great 
Plains); Kansas Electric Power Cooperative, Inc.; Kansas Municipal Energy Agency; 
KPP Energy; Nebraska Public Power District; NextEra Energy Resources, LLC; 
Northeast Texas Electric Cooperative and East Texas Electric Cooperative, Inc.; 
Oklahoma Gas and Electric Company; Omaha Public Power District; Savion, LLC 
(Savion); Sierra Club; Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA); Sunflower Electric 
Power Corporation; Sustainable FERC Project and Natural Resources Defense Council; 
Tri-State Generation and Transmission Association, Inc.; Western Area Power 
Administration; Western Farmers Electric Cooperative; and Xcel Energy Services Inc., 
on behalf of its affiliate Southwestern Public Service Company.    
 
41 Id. at 45. 

--- PAGE 68 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 12 - 
 
Comments were timely filed by:  Advanced Energy United; American Clean 
Power Association; ITC Great Plains; Public Interest Organizations (PIO);42 SEIA; and 
Southwest Power Pool Transmission Owner Group (SPP TO Group).43  APA timely filed 
a protest. 
 
On December 8, 2025, Savion filed a motion for leave to protest out-of-time, 
protest, motion for leave to answer, and answer to the comments (Savion December 8 
Protest).  On December 9, 2025, SPP filed a motion for leave to answer and answer in 
response to the comments and APA’s protest.  
 
On December 11, 2025, Basin Electric Power Cooperative (Basin Electric) filed a 
motion to intervene out-of-time. 
 
On December 18, 2025, SPP filed a motion for leave to answer and answer to the 
Savion December 8 Protest.  On December 19, 2025, the SPP TO Group filed a motion 
for leave to answer and answer to the Savion December 8 Protest. 
 
On December 23, 2025, a deficiency letter was issued informing SPP that its  
filing was deficient and that additional information was necessary to process its filing 
(Deficiency Letter).44  On January 12, 2026, SPP filed a response to the Deficiency Letter 
(Deficiency Response).45  
 
Notice of SPP’s Deficiency Response was published in the Federal Register,  
91 Fed. Reg. 2343 (Jan. 20, 2026), with interventions and protests due on or before 
January 26, 2026.  
 
42 PIOs consist of Natural Resources Defense Council, Sierra Club, and 
Sustainable FERC Project. 
43 SPP TO Group consists of American Electric Power Service Corporation, the 
Evergy Companies, Oklahoma Gas and Electric Company, and Xcel Energy Services Inc. 
on behalf of Southwestern Public Service Company. 
44 Sw. Power Pool, Inc., Docket No. ER26-414-000 (Dec. 23, 2025) (Deficiency 
Letter). 
45 In its Deficiency Response, SPP requested a shortened comment period and 
waiver of the 60-day prior notice requirement.  On January 16, 2026, SPP TO Group filed 
an answer in support of SPP’s request for shortened comment period and waiver of the 
60-day prior notice requirement. 

--- PAGE 69 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 13 - 
 
APA and PIOs filed timely comments in response to SPP’s Deficiency Response.  
Savion filed a timely protest in response to SPP’s Deficiency Response (Savion January 
26 Protest).   
 
On January 29, 2026, SPP filed a motion for leave to answer and answer to the 
Savion January 26 Protest. 
IV. 
Discussion 
A. 
Procedural Matters 
 
Pursuant to Rule 214 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Procedure, 
18 C.F.R. § 385.214 (2025), the notice of intervention and timely, unopposed motions  
to intervene serve to make the entities that filed them parties to the proceeding.   
 
 
Pursuant to Rule 214(d) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Procedure,  
18 C.F.R. § 385.214(d), we grant Basin Electric’s late-filed motion to intervene given  
its interest in the proceeding, the early stage of the proceeding, and the absence  
of undue prejudice or delay. 
 
 
Rule 213(a)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Procedure, 18 C.F.R. 
§ 385.213(a)(2) (2025), prohibits an answer to a protest or answer unless otherwise 
ordered by the decisional authority.  We accept Savion’s, SPP’s, and SPP TO Group’s 
answers because they have provided information that assisted us in our decision-making 
process. 
B. 
Substantive Matters 
 
We find SPP’s CPP proposal to be just and reasonable and not unduly 
discriminatory or preferential.  Moreover, we find that SPP continues to comply with the 
regional transmission planning and cost allocation requirements of Order No. 1000.  We 
also find that SPP’s proposed GCP satisfies the independent entity variation standard for 
deviations from the requirements of Order No. 2003 and the Commission’s subsequent 
final rules on generator interconnection. Accordingly, we accept SPP’s proposed Tariff 
revisions, effective March 1, 2026, as requested, subject to condition, and direct SPP to 
submit a compliance filing within 30 days of the date of this order, as discussed further 
below.46  
 
46 See NRG Power Mktg., LLC v. FERC, 862 F.3d 108, at 114-15 (D.C. Cir. 2017) 
(discussing the Commission’s authority to propose modifications to a utility’s FPA 
section 205 rate proposal). 

--- PAGE 70 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 14 - 
 
We generally limit our discussion and findings below to aspects of SPP’s proposal 
that are contested.  We find that the other aspects of SPP’s proposed CPP that are not 
contested and not specifically discussed herein are just and reasonable and not unduly 
discriminatory or preferential.  
1. 
CPP Framework 
a. 
SPP Proposal 
 
Under the proposed CPP framework, SPP will conduct a CPP-20 transmission 
assessment, which will assess long-term transmission system needs over a 20-year 
planning horizon, with a focus on both EHV (i.e., 300 kV and above) and high voltage 
(HV) (i.e., above 100 kV and below 300 kV) facilities, and a CPP-10 transmission 
assessment, which will address needs over a 10-year planning horizon, in the first year of 
the planning cycle.  SPP will also perform annual CPP-10 transmission assessments in 
the second and third years of each planning cycle.47  SPP proposes to add Attachment 
AY, section IV (Transmission Assessment) to its Tariff to contain its Transmission 
Assessment Procedures for both the CPP-10 and CPP-20.48 
i. 
Transmission Assessment Procedures 
 
Upon commencement of each transmission assessment,49 SPP will post the 
proposed study schedules and details of the study processes on SPP’s website.50   
Under SPP’s proposed Transmission Assessment Procedures, SPP, in consultation  
 
47 Transmittal at 21-23.  In the first year of each planning cycle, the CPP-20 and 
CPP-10 will be conducted simultaneously.  
48 SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV (The Transmission Assessment 
Procedures) (0.0.0). 
49 The term “transmission assessment” refers to either the CPP-20 or CPP-10.   
Id., attach. AY, § II (Definitions) (0.0.0).  
50 Id., attach. AY, § IV.1 (Transmission Assessment) (0.0.0), § IV.1.1 (Preparation 
for the Transmission Assessment). 

--- PAGE 71 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 15 - 
with stakeholders and in accordance with the CPP Manual,51 will develop the scope for 
each transmission assessment, which will be published on SPP’s website.52   
 
SPP’s proposed Tariff provides that the transmission assessment scope and CPP 
Manual will specify the method, criteria, assumptions, and data to be used, including  
how transmission needs will be identified and how inputs will be incorporated, as well  
as an explanation of which public policy requirements will be evaluated for potential 
solutions.53  Further, proposed Attachment AY, section IV.1.2.1 identifies the seven 
factors that SPP will consider in each transmission assessment and requires SPP to 
publish certain information regarding the use of such factors in its futures.54  More 
specifically, in publishing the CPP Manual and/or the transmission assessment scope, 
SPP must identify:  (1) which of the seven factors are included in which future;  
(2) a description of each factor; (3) an explanation of how each factor is accounted  
for in each future; (4) a description of any discounting used for factors four through 
seven; and (5) the list of factors it considered but did not incorporate into its futures.55   
In addition to the seven factors, SPP’s proposed Tariff states that SPP will incorporate,  
as appropriate, additional requirements into its transmission assessments that are 
 
 
51 The CPP Manual is a “business practice manual developed and maintained in 
coordination with stakeholders” that “details the processes, procedures, methodology, 
criteria, assumptions and data associated with the [CPP]” and is posted on SPP’s website.   
Id., attach. AY, § II (0.0.0). 
52 Transmittal at 82.  
53 SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV.1 (0.0.0), § IV.1.2 (Transmission 
Assessment Scope Development). 
54 Proposed Attachment AY, section IV.1.2.1 requires that the following factors 
must be considered in each transmission assessment:  (1) federal, federally recognized 
Tribal, state, and local laws and regulations affecting the resource mix and demand;  
(2) federal, federally recognized Tribal, state, and local laws and regulations on 
decarbonization and electrification; (3) state-approved integrated resource plans and 
expected supply obligations for load-serving entities; (4) trends in fuel costs and in  
the cost, performance, and availability of generation, electric storage resources, and 
building and transportation electrification technologies; (5) resource retirements;  
(6) interconnection requests and withdrawals as considered for PILs; and (7) federal, 
federally recognized Tribal, state, and local policy goals that affect transmission needs 
over a 20-year horizon.  Id., attach. AY, § IV.1 (0.0.0), § IV.1.2.1 (Future Development). 
55  Id., attach. AY, § IV.1 (0.0.0), IV.1.2.1. 

--- PAGE 72 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 16 - 
currently contained in Attachment O, section I.56  Additionally, SPP’s proposed Tariff 
provides that each transmission assessment will include long-term capacity forecasts and 
incorporate generation and demand response resources that can be relied upon for 
planning purposes.57   
 
To further develop transmission system planning models, proposed Attachment 
AY, section IV.1.3 provides for coordination between each transmission assessment and 
information from other studies.58  SPP also details the procedures for stakeholders to 
submit detailed project proposals in response to the CPP transmission assessments in 
proposed Attachment AY, section IV.1.6.59  SPP explains that the project proposal 
provisions in sections IV.1.6, and IV.1.7 are generally identical to existing ITP provisions 
contained in Attachment O.60  Detailed project proposals must include descriptions of the 
project, the identified need, modeling and data identified by SPP, results of economic and 
reliability modeling analyses, if available, and any other supporting documentation.61     
 
56 Specifically, these additional requirements include:  (1) North American  
Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) reliability standards; (2) SPP criteria;  
(3) zonal planning criteria; (4) transmission projects previously approved through 
Attachment O and Attachment AY processes; (5) approved zonal reliability upgrades 
developed by transmission owners under Attachment O; (6) long-term firm transmission 
service commitments; (7) load forecasts, including demand management impacts;  
(8) existing and planned demand response resources; (9) congestion analysis within  
SPP and between regions; (10) public policy requirements identified through stakeholder 
surveys; (11) additional public policy requirements; (12) operational experience and 
market performance data; (13) persistent operational issues; and (14) other input 
requirements.  Id., attach. AY, § IV.1 (0.0.0), § IV.1.2.2 (Policy, Reliability, and 
Economic Input Requirements). 
57 Id., attach. AY, § IV.1 (0.0.0), § IV.1.2.3 (Generation and Demand Response 
Considerations). 
58 Id., attach. AY, § IV.1 (0.0.0), § IV.1.3 (Additional Information from Other 
Studies).   
59 Id., attach. AY, § IV.1 (0.0.0), § IV.1.6 (Transmission Solution Evaluation 
Process Including Detailed Project Proposals). 
60 Transmittal at 81, 84. 
61 SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV.1 (0.0.0), § IV.1.6.1 (Minimum 
Information Requirements for DPP Submissions).   

--- PAGE 73 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 17 - 
 
Proposed Attachment AY, section IV.1.7 specifies the process by which detailed 
project proposals will then be analyzed.62  Specifically, SPP will conduct the requisite 
studies needed to analyze potential solutions to address the final transmission assessment 
study scope, including needs driven by asset age and condition, zonal planning criteria, 
local planning criteria, and alternatives to transmission solutions.63  As part of its 
transmission project selection process, SPP also proposes to evaluate expected benefits 
and cost effectiveness of proposed solutions.64  The benefits included in SPP’s evaluation 
will include:  (1) avoided or deferred reliability transmission facilities and aging 
infrastructure replacement; (2) reduced loss of load probability or reduced planning 
reserve margin; (3) production cost savings; (4) reduced transmission energy losses;  
(5) reduced congestion due to transmission outages; (6) mitigation of extreme weather 
events and unexpected system conditions; (7) capacity cost benefits from reduced  
peak energy losses; and (8) other benefit metrics, as appropriate, in accordance with 
Attachment AY and the CPP Manual.65  Further, as part of its evaluation, SPP will assess 
the cost effectiveness of proposed solutions taking into consideration benefits, sensitivity 
analysis, and assessment of the impact of the transmission plan on a typical residential 
customer.66  SPP also proposes to include the GRID-C contributions from current and 
prospective interconnection customers within a CPP planning cycle in the benefit-to-cost 
analysis for CPP upgrades.67   
 
As part of the CPP framework, SPP will publish a report summarizing the findings 
of each transmission assessment including, for the CPP-20, a determination of GRID-C 
rates.68  The report as well as related studies and criteria, assumptions, and underlying 
 
62 Id., attach. AY, § IV.1 (0.0.0), § IV.1.7 (Process to Analyze Transmission 
Solutions and Alternative for the Transmission Assessment).  
63 Id., attach. AY, § IV.1 (0.0.0), § IV.1.7.1. 
64 Id., attach. AY, § IV.1 (0.0.0), §§ IV.1.9 (Benefits Evaluation), IV.1.10 (Cost 
Effectiveness Evaluation). 
65 Id., attach. AY, § IV.1 (0.0.0), § IV.1.9. 
66 Id., attach. AY, § IV.1 (0.0.0), § 1.10 (Cost Effectiveness Evaluation). 
67 Id., attach. AY, § IV.1 (0.0.0), § IV.1.10.g.  SPP defines a CPP upgrade  
as “a Network Upgrade identified in a Transmission Assessment that is approved  
for construction by the SPP Board of Directors.”  SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY,  
§ II (Definitions) (0.0.0). 
68 Transmittal at 23, 85; SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV.1 (0.0.0),  
§ IV.1.12 (Reporting).  

--- PAGE 74 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 18 - 
data will be posted on the SPP website.  Under proposed Attachment AY, section 1.12, 
SPP will present preferred solutions and results of cost-effectiveness analysis, discuss 
alternatives considered, solicit feedback on solutions, and prepare an annual transmission 
assessment report that includes a draft list of projects for approval, as well as an 
explanation of which transmission needs driven by public policy requirements were and 
were not evaluated for potential solutions.69  SPP explains that these reporting 
requirements are generally identical to existing ITP provisions.70  
 
SPP contends that the proposed CPP framework complies with the Commission’s 
regional transmission planning requirements in Order No. 1000 because the proposed 
CPP framework will not change the structure of its existing Commission-approved  
regional transmission planning process in a way that would diminish compliance, 
including:  (1) the scope of the SPP transmission planning region, (2) compliance with 
Order No. 890 transmission planning principles,71 (3) requirements to plan on a regional 
basis to identify more efficient or cost-effective transmission solutions, or (4) 
consideration of transmission needs driven by public policy requirements.72 
 
Additionally, in its Deficiency Response, SPP agrees to submit, on compliance, 
Tariff revisions to correct several drafting errors in the Transmission Assessment 
Procedures contained in proposed Attachment AY, section IV if so ordered by the 
Commission.73  These include revisions to correct a formatting error in proposed section 
IV.1.7.1.1, to revise proposed section IV.1.10 to correct a reference from section V.9 to 
IV.1.9, to change several references in sections IV.1.7.1.1.2 and IV.1.12.3 to the CPP 
“Transmission Assessment” instead of the “Integrated Transmission Planning 
Assessment,” and to correct a drafting error in proposed section IV.1.12 to clarify that the 
CPP-20 report will include a “determination” of the Network Resource Interconnection 
 
69 SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV.1 (0.0.0), §§ IV.12.1, IV.12.2, IV.12.3. 
70 Transmittal at 85 (citing SPP, Tariff, attach. O, § III (ITP Assessment) (14.0.0), 
§§ III.7(e)-7(f)). 
71 Order No. 890, 118 FERC ¶ 61,119. 
72 Transmittal at 55-59 (citing Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 144 FERC ¶ 61,059 (2013) 
(First Order No. 1000 Compliance Order), order on reh’g & compliance, 149 FERC  
¶ 61,048 (2014) (Second Order No. 1000 Compliance Order), order on reh’g & 
compliance, 151 FERC ¶ 61,045 (2015) (Third Order No. 1000 Compliance Order), 
order on compliance, 152 FERC ¶ 61,106 (2015) (Fourth Order No. 1000 Compliance 
Order); Order No. 1000, 136 FERC ¶ 61,051). 
73 Deficiency Response at 7-8. 

--- PAGE 75 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 19 - 
Service (NRIS) Region-wide and Subregional GRID-C rates, not an “estimation” of these 
rates.74   
ii. 
CPP-20 
 
As noted above, the CPP-20 is performed in the first year of each three-year 
planning cycle and aims to proactively identify transmission solutions over a 20-year 
planning horizon.75  Specifically, the CPP-20 will focus on specific representative future 
years, not each consecutive year, in the 20-year planning horizon as described in the  
CPP Manual.76  Further, the scope for the CPP-20 will include at least three “plausible 
and diverse futures,” developed in consultation with the SPP Regional State Committee, 
and at least one sensitivity applied to each future to account for uncertain operational 
outcomes due to extreme weather events.77  SPP explains that the insights and data 
produced from the CPP-20 will inform the subsequent two CPP-10 assessments by 
identifying potential system upgrades, long-term planning needs, and a strategic 
transmission expansion plan.  SPP states that the transmission projects that result from 
CPP-20 (i.e., the CPP-20 Transmission Portfolio) represent a “conceptual” project 
portfolio that will then be considered for approval and inclusion in the CPP-10 
recommended project portfolios.78   
 
Under the proposal, the CPP-20 will also determine PILs for the applicable  
CPP planning cycle.  SPP states that PILs represent “strategically selected” locations 
where transmission system capability has been evaluated using prior studies, technical 
assessments from the generator interconnection queue, and stakeholder input to identify 
locations with sufficient existing or planned transmission capacity available to serve 
long-term generator interconnection needs.79  More specifically, PILs will be based on 
 
74 Id. at 7-9. 
75 Transmittal at 23. 
76 Id. at 22; SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV.1 (0.0.0), § IV.1.1.1 (CPP-20).  
77 SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV.1 (0.0.0), § IV.1.1.1 (CPP-20).  The 
proposed Tariff provides that, if the SPP Regional State Committee requests that SPP  
use additional futures to inform its consideration of cost allocation methods, SPP must 
develop a reasonable number of those futures.  Id.   
78 Transmittal at 23. 
79 Id. at 25, 83.  SPP proposes to define PILs as “the locations identified as part  
of the twenty (20) year planning horizon CPP Planning Cycle.”  SPP, Proposed Tariff, 
attach. AY, § II (0.0.0). 

--- PAGE 76 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 20 - 
one or more suitable points of interconnection ensuring transmission capability and 
feasibility for an amount of generation at each PIL, but they will not guarantee site 
control, permitting, or development activities.80  SPP explains that PILs are fuel and 
resource neutral and that final PIL determinations and associated MW caps are subject to 
stakeholder review and approval.81  SPP also explains that each CPP-10 will review and 
update the available PILs, in accordance with the CPP Manual, as interconnection 
customers commit to pay the GRID-C charge.  
 
SPP explains that the benefit of interconnecting at a PIL is that transmission 
capacity will have been proactively developed in that area to serve future needs, 
including generator interconnection needs.  SPP states that, to the extent an 
interconnection customer elects to interconnect at a PIL, it generally will not be 
responsible for additional system network upgrade costs beyond its GRID-C charge.82 
iii. 
CPP-10 
 
Under the proposal, in each year of the three-year planning cycle, SPP will 
conduct a CPP-10 transmission assessment.  The CPP-10, like the CPP-20, will focus on 
representative future years, not each consecutive year in the 10-year planning horizon.  In 
the event the CPP-10 and CPP-20 transmission assessments are scheduled concurrently, 
SPP may coordinate and, to the maximum extent possible, combine the stakeholder 
scoping efforts, technical assessments, and reporting activities for both assessments.83  
SPP explains that the CPP-10 is a near-term planning tool that will address reliability, 
economic, public policy-driven, and generator interconnection needs.  SPP explains that 
the CPP-10 consists of three phases:  (1) the ICS; (2) a single interconnection customer 
decision point (Decision Point);84 and (3) a regional transmission planning assessment.85 
 
 
 
80 Transmittal at 83-84; SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV.1 (0.0.0), § IV.1.4 
(Analysis of Prospective New Generation or Expanded Generation).  
81 Transmittal at 25-26, 84; SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV.1 (0.0.0), 
§ IV.1.4 (Analysis of Prospective New Generation or Expanded Generation). 
82 Exceptions are discussed below.  See infra P 59. 
83 SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV.1 (0.0.0), § IV.1.1.2 (CPP-10). 
84 The ICS and Decision Point are described further below in section IV.B.3.a. 
85 Transmittal at 27. 

--- PAGE 77 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 21 - 
 
SPP explains that the regional transmission planning assessment portion of the 
CPP-10 will evaluate the transmission system’s ability to meet regional transmission 
planning needs over a 10-year time horizon, based on SPP’s existing ITP process.  To 
conduct the regional transmission planning phase, the assumptions utilized in the CPP-20 
will provide an initial futures forecast for the CPP-10 transmission assessments.86  Each 
CPP-10 transmission assessment will be performed consistent with the Transmission 
Assessment Procedures outlined above and will consider the same factors, requirements, 
and forecasts that SPP uses in the CPP-20 transmission assessment.87  The 
interconnection outcomes of the ICS Decision Point are also considered in the regional 
transmission planning assessment phase of the CPP-10, which will then recommend 
transmission system upgrades to be included in the plan for construction.88  SPP asserts 
that the CPP-10 will result in a proposed portfolio of efficient and cost-effective 
transmission solutions addressing regional transmission and generator interconnection 
needs.89  Transmission projects identified in the CPP-10 may be authorized for 
construction with approval of the SPP Board of Directors.90  
b. 
Comments 
 
Multiple commenters contend that the CPP proposal will improve SPP’s 
transmission planning and generator interconnection processes, enabling more efficient 
and cost-effective transmission planning and identification of network upgrades,91 
although several commenters also request additional reporting on CPP implementation.92  
 
86 SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV.1 (0.0.0), § IV.1.2 (Transmission 
Assessment Scope Development). 
87 Id., attach. AY, § IV.1 (0.0.0), §§ IV.1.2.1 (Future Development), IV.1.2.2 
(Policy, Reliability, and Economic Input Requirements), IV.1.2.3 (Generation and 
Demand Response Considerations). 
88 Id., attach. AY, § I (0.0.0). 
89 Transmittal at 27. 
90 SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV.1 (0.0.0), § IV.1.11 (Determination for 
Construction). 
91 Advanced Energy United Comments at 1; American Clean Power Association 
Comments at 1-2; ITC Great Plains Comments at 2; PIOs Comments at 18; SEIA 
Comments at 1; SPP TO Group Comments at 1, 6-8. 
92 See infra PP 85, 124, 126. 

--- PAGE 78 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 22 - 
Further, American Clean Power Association, Advanced Energy United, APA, ITC Great 
Plains, and PIOs commend SPP’s stakeholder process for developing the CPP proposal.93 
 
SEIA states that the CPP will improve SPP’s process and will completely change 
how a major transmission planning region approaches transmission planning and 
generator interconnection.94  SEIA states that the GRID-C mechanism facilitates the 
development of multi-value transmission projects that address existing system, load, and 
future generator interconnection needs.  ITC Great Plains and SEIA also support the 
consolidation of the transmission planning and generator interconnection processes under 
the CPP framework to enable faster, more reliable study timelines while providing 
greater stability and predictability across the entire interconnection process.95  SPP TO 
Group states that the CPP proposal seeks to correct problems that have resulted from 
SPP’s differing cost allocation methods for network upgrades in the ITP and GIP (such as 
unfair cost allocations, lack of cost certainty, and a “free rider” problem) by integrating 
the transmission planning and generator interconnection processes into a single, holistic 
planning process.96  In addition, SEIA agrees with SPP that a holistic planning process 
that will identify optimal transmission solutions and consolidate transmission planning 
and generator interconnection under the CPP creates the unified, forward-looking 
planning framework envisioned by Order Nos. 1000 and 1920,97 while ITC Great Plains 
also states that a holistic planning process is suitable for SPP’s distinctive needs.98 
 
93 Advanced Energy United Comments at 14; American Clean Power Association 
Comments at 3; APA Protest at 1; ITC Great Plains Comments at 2; PIOs Comments  
at 1. 
94 SEIA Comments at 1-2. 
95 ITC Great Plains Comments at 3; SEIA Comments at 5.  
96 SPP TO Group Comments at 1-7. 
97 SEIA Comments at 5 (citing Transmittal at 7, 47; Order No. 1000, 136 FERC 
¶ 61,051; Bldg. for the Future Through Elec. Reg’l Transmission Plan. & Cost 
Allocation, Order No. 1920, 187 FERC ¶ 61,068, order on reh’g & clarification,  
Order No. 1920-A, 189 FERC ¶ 61,126 (2024), order on reh’g & clarification,  
Order No. 1920-B, 191 FERC ¶ 61,026 (2025)). 
98 ITC Great Plains Comments at 4-5. 

--- PAGE 79 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 23 - 
   
 
American Clean Power Association states that the CPP proposal will break down 
the “artificial silos” between regionally planned transmission and interconnection-related 
network upgrades.99  American Clean Power Association supports aligning system 
modeling, assumptions, and cost allocation for transmission planning and generator 
interconnection in the CPP.100  American Clean Power Association asserts that the CPP 
will enable transmission system expansion to meet growing load and interconnection 
requests and will better serve both load and generation by proactively identifying optimal 
transmission solutions that simultaneously address multiple drivers.101   
c. 
Commission Determination 
 
We find SPP’s proposed CPP framework to be just and reasonable and not unduly 
discriminatory or preferential.  We agree with SPP and various commenters that SPP’s 
proposal to integrate its regional transmission planning and generator interconnection 
processes under the CPP framework is an innovative approach to more efficiently and 
cost-effectively plan its transmission system.  As outlined by SPP, the CPP framework, 
consisting of the CPP-20 and CPP-10 transmission assessments and integrated ICS, will 
allow SPP to more proactively and holistically identify transmission facilities that address 
the needs of both load and interconnection customers, provide greater upfront cost 
certainty to interconnection customers, and reduce interconnection study timelines.   
 
In addition, we find that SPP’s proposal complies with the Commission’s existing 
Order No. 1000 regional transmission planning and cost allocation requirements.102  We 
 
99 American Clean Power Association Comments at 2. 
100 Id. at 2-3. 
101 Id. at 3-4. 
102 We note that SPP did not propose to change its Highway/Byway regional cost 
allocation method, which the Commission has found complies with Order No. 1000’s 
requirement that each public utility transmission provider have a method, or set of 
methods, for allocating the costs of any new transmission facility selected in the regional 
transmission plan for purposes of cost allocation that satisfies six regional cost allocation 
principles.  See First Order No. 1000 Compliance Order, 144 FERC ¶ 61,059 at P 347; 
Second Order No. 1000 Compliance Order, 149 FERC ¶ 61,048 at P 276; Sw. Power 
Pool, Inc., 193 FERC ¶ 61,244 at P 72.  As such, we find that SPP continues to comply 
with this requirement of Order No. 1000.  Likewise, we note that SPP did not propose to 
change the competitive transmission development process that the Commission found 
complies with the nonincumbent transmission developer reforms of Order No. 1000.  See 
First Order No. 1000 Compliance Order, 144 FERC ¶ 61,059 at PP 162, 184, 195, 225, 
 

--- PAGE 80 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 24 - 
note that the Commission previously found that SPP’s existing regional transmission 
planning process satisfied each of the transmission planning principles of Order  
No. 890103 and requirements contained in Order No. 1000 (including the requirement  
that public utility transmission providers amend their tariffs to describe procedures that 
provide for the consideration of transmission needs driven by public policy requirements 
in their regional transmission planning processes).104  As SPP’s proposed CPP 
Transmission Assessment Procedures are based, in part, on its existing regional 
transmission planning process contained in Attachment O of its Tariff, our focus in this 
proceeding is on the incremental changes to the SPP regional transmission planning 
process proposed in the instant filing.  We agree with SPP that the proposed CPP 
framework will not change the structure of its regional transmission planning process in a 
manner that would diminish its compliance with the regional transmission planning 
requirements of Order No. 1000 and that many of its proposed CPP Transmission 
Assessment Procedures Tariff provisions, including Attachment AY, sections IV.1.1, 
IV.1.6, IV.1.7, and IV.1.12, are nearly identical to existing ITP provisions contained in 
Attachment O, section III.105  Moreover, SPP proposes only limited changes to 
Attachment O itself, including to update references to the CPP and to replace references 
to the 20-Year Assessment with the CPP-20.  Therefore, given the consistency between 
the existing Attachment O, section III (The Integrated Transmission Planning 
Assessment) and proposed Attachment AY, we find that SPP’s proposed transmission 
planning requirements contained in Attachment AY comply with the transmission 
planning-related requirements of Order Nos. 890 and 1000. 
 
241-242, 306-307, 322; Second Order No. 1000 Compliance Order, 149 FERC ¶ 61,048 
at PP 128, 158-159, 166, 173, 180, 196, 263; Third Order No. 1000 Compliance Order, 
151 FERC ¶ 61,045 at PP 59-60; Fourth Order No. 1000 Compliance Order, 152 FERC  
¶ 61,106 at PP 15, 19.  Nor did SPP propose to change its interregional transmission 
coordination procedures or interregional cost allocation method, which the Commission 
also found comply with the interregional transmission coordination and cost allocation 
requirements of Order No. 1000.  See Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 150 FERC ¶ 61,093, at  
PP 24, 29, 48, 66, 84, 148-149 (2015), order on compliance filing, 154 FERC ¶ 61,075,  
at P 10, 13, 27, 41, 58, 69 (2016); Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 150 FERC ¶ 61,210, at PP 18, 
24-25, 64, 92, 111, 178-179, order on compliance filing, 152 FERC ¶ 61,172, at PP 11, 
18, 21, 26 (2015), order conditionally accepting compliance filing, 154 FERC ¶ 61,076, 
at P 11 (2016). 
103 See Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 132 FERC ¶ 61,042, at PP 52-63 (2010). 
104 See First Order No. 1000 Compliance Order, 144 FERC ¶ 61,059 at P 20.  
105 Transmittal at 56-59, 81, 84. 

--- PAGE 81 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 25 - 
 
However, we recognize SPP’s agreement in its Deficiency Response to make  
the following corrections in the proposed Tariff language:  (1) removing the bolded 
subheading language “Potential improvements to the Transmission” and instead 
including that language in the body of the Tariff in Attachment AY, section IV.1.7.1.1 to 
read “Potential improvements to the Transmission System submitted by a Transmission 
Owner that are intended to relieve a violation of Zonal Planning Criteria shall be studied 
as a potential solution in accordance with the CPP Manual;” (2) correcting the Tariff 
reference in Attachment AY, section IV.1.10 to read “[i]n addition to Section IV.1.9  
of this Attachment AY requirement, the Transmission Provider shall assess the cost 
effectiveness of proposed solutions;” (3) correcting language in Attachment AY,  
sections IV.1.7.1.1.2 and IV.1.12.3 to reference the CPP “Transmission Assessment,” 
instead of the “Integrated Transmission Planning Assessment;” and (4) replacing the 
word “estimation” with “determination” in Attachment AY, section IV.1.12 in reference 
to “the NRIS Region-wide and Subregional GRID Contribution rates.”  Therefore, we 
direct SPP to submit, within 30 days of the date of this order, a further compliance filing 
to revise Attachment AY to include these corrections. 
2. 
Cost Allocation and Cost Recovery  
a. 
SPP Proposal 
i. 
Cost Allocation   
 
As described above, SPP currently allocates to load the costs of new transmission 
facilities approved through the ITP process using its Highway/Byway cost allocation 
method under Attachment J and Schedule 11 of the Tariff.106  In this filing, SPP does  
not propose to change its existing Highway/Byway cost allocation method, but rather 
proposes to use that method to share the costs of new transmission facilities among  
the generation and load that will benefit from CPP upgrades.107  SPP proposes that 
interconnection customers will be allocated a share of those costs through the GRID-C 
mechanism, which is a per MW charge calculated to reflect the share of system network 
upgrade costs paid by generators, with the revenues credited to load paying for the same 
network upgrades under SPP’s Highway/Byway cost allocation method.108    
 
106 Id. at 52.  Transmission customers pay base plan zonal charges, subregional 
charges, and region-wide charges pursuant to Schedule 11 of the Tariff.  SPP, Tariff, 
sched. 11 (Base Plan Zonal Charge) (10.0.1).  
107 Transmittal at 8-9, 52-53. 
108 The GRID-C revenue collected by SPP will be credited directly to transmission 
customers under Schedule 11 of the Tariff, which will reduce transmission customers’ net 
invoice for transmission service.  Id. at 24, 90 (citing SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY,  
 

--- PAGE 82 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 26 - 
 
As discussed further below, each interconnection customer will be required to  
pay a share of the CPP-20 Transmission Portfolio costs based on the MW amount of its 
requested interconnection service—either Energy Resource Interconnection Service 
(ERIS) or NRIS—multiplied by the applicable GRID-C rates.109  Thus, SPP states  
that the GRID-C framework is designed to reflect the transmission utilization of CPP 
upgrades by future generation, representing interconnection customers’ roughly 
commensurate share of the costs to construct transmission projects necessary to enable 
their interconnection.110 
 
SPP explains that the GRID-C framework will identify interconnection customers’ 
share of those system network upgrade costs prior to entering the interconnection queue 
and, thereby, provide interconnection customers with increased cost certainty.111  SPP 
states that, in exchange for the CPP’s cost certainty, interconnection customers will be 
required to provide greater upfront cost commitment, meet stricter commercial readiness 
requirements, and be subject to risk of greater financial penalties for withdrawing from 
the queue, as outlined further below.112  SPP asserts that the increased cost certainty and 
financial commitments at the beginning of the interconnection process should reduce  
the number of speculative projects entering the interconnection queue and the need for 
restudies, to the benefit of all interconnection customers.  SPP states that although it 
expects that interconnection customers will pay more under CPP than they currently pay 
to interconnect to the SPP transmission system, the GRID-C charge will be more evenly 
assessed across the many interconnection customers that are similarly benefiting from the 
 
§ IV.3 (GRID Contribution Cost Allocation from Transmission Assessments) (0.0.0),  
§ IV.3.5 (Distribution of GRID Contribution Revenues)); SPP, Proposed Tariff, sched. 11 
(Base Plan Zonal Charge) (10.0.5); id., addendum 3 (Addendum 3 to Schedule 11) 
(0.0.0). 
109 Transmittal at 53.  Under SPP’s GIP, when an interconnection customer 
submits its interconnection request, it must request one of two primary types of 
interconnection service:  ERIS or NRIS.  ERIS makes the interconnection customer 
“eligible to deliver the Generating Facility’s electric output using the existing firm or 
non-firm capacity of the Transmission System on an as available basis.”  NRIS allows  
an interconnection customer in SPP “to integrate its Generating Facility with the 
Transmission System in the same manner as all other Network Resources.”  SPP, Tariff, 
attach. V, § 1 (Definitions) (21.0.1).  Neither ERIS nor NRIS, in and of themselves, 
conveys transmission service.  Id. 
110 Transmittal at 23-24. 
111  Id. at 20, 25. 
112 See infra PP 99, 102, 104. 

--- PAGE 83 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 27 - 
shared transmission investment, will allocate costs roughly commensurate with benefits, 
and will result in greater upfront cost certainty.113     
 
SPP asserts that, like the Highway/Byway cost allocation method, the GRID-C 
method reasonably aligns the costs of transmission expansions with the usage of the 
transmission system, and by distinguishing between the types of facilities that are  
used on a regional and subregional basis, it ensures that allocations of costs are roughly 
commensurate with associated benefits.114  SPP acknowledges that the proposed 
provisions related to the GRID-C mechanism and PILs reflect a change from the 
proportional impact cost allocation method for necessary system network upgrades 
contained in its Order No. 2023-compliant GIP.115  Nevertheless, SPP argues that the 
proposal is just and reasonable and satisfies the independent entity variation standard for 
variations from the Commission’s pro forma Large Generator Interconnection Procedures 
(LGIP), as the proposal will not only enable planning of more efficient and cost-effective 
transmission solutions, but also provide interconnection customers with greater certainty 
regarding cost and viability of interconnecting a particular generating facility, which will, 
in turn, reduce the number of withdrawals and restudies and speed up the entire 
interconnection process.116   
 
SPP states that, in addition to paying the GRID-C charge, interconnection 
customers that request to interconnect at an unplanned interconnection location (UPIL)—
which is a location other than a PIL or a PIL where available capacity has been exceeded 
by interconnection requests—will be directly assigned the cost of any additional network 
upgrades identified during the ICS that are necessary for their interconnection.117  
Specifically, if multiple interconnection customers request to interconnect at the same 
PIL such that the total requested MWs of interconnection service are above the 
designated MW of capacity at the PIL, the PIL will be considered oversubscribed.  In that 
 
113 Transmittal at 44; SPP, Filing, Ex. SPP-004 (Testimony of Charles Locke)  
at 25-26 (Locke Test.). 
114 Transmittal at 53. 
115 Id. at 69. 
116 Id.  SPP notes that, in Order No. 2023, the Commission stated that methods 
other than the proportional impact method could be justified under the independent  
entity variation standard.  Id. (citing Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054 at P 464). 
117 Id. at 26; SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § V.8 (Interconnection Cluster 
Study) (0.0.0), § V.8.3 (ICS Review Period); id. § V.3 (Interconnection Requests) (0.0.0), 
§ V.3.3A.1.2 (Planned Interconnection Location); id. § V.4 (0.0.0), § V.4.2.2 (Cost 
Allocation for Interconnection Facilities and Network Upgrades).   

--- PAGE 84 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 28 - 
case, SPP will request that each interconnection customer reduce its interconnection 
request by a pro rata percentage.  Interconnection customers that choose not to reduce 
their interconnection request will be considered to be interconnecting at a UPIL and  
will pay additional directly assigned network upgrade costs (DAUC) for any additional 
system network upgrade costs identified in the ICS.  Under the proposal, an 
interconnection customer’s DAUC may be reduced if some of the additional network 
upgrades are identified in the CPP-10 as providing sufficient benefit to load or eliminated 
entirely if all of the additional network upgrades provide sufficient benefit to load.118  
Further, SPP explains that interconnection customers at PILs may be assigned DAUC for 
network upgrades with a nominal operating voltage less than or equal to 100 kV because 
such costs are not included in the calculation of GRID-C rates.119  SPP also notes that all 
interconnection customers will remain responsible for the cost of interconnection-related 
facilities.120 
ii. 
GRID-C Calculation 
 
SPP explains that GRID-C rates will be calculated based on the estimated network 
upgrade engineering and construction costs of the network upgrades identified in the 
applicable CPP-20 and will account for the relative use of those planned transmission 
facilities by prospective interconnection customers.121   
 
Specifically, SPP explains that there will be four GRID-C rates, divided by 
interconnection type (ERIS or NRIS) and geography:  (1) region-wide ERIS GRID-C, 
(2) subregional ERIS GRID-C, (3) region-wide NRIS GRID-C, and (4) subregional NRIS 
GRID-C.  Under the proposal, ERIS GRID-C rates will apply to all interconnection 
customers, and interconnection customers that request NRIS service will pay both the 
ERIS and NRIS GRID-C rates.  Each interconnection customer will pay the region-wide 
 
118 SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § V.3 (0.0.0), § V.3.3A.1 (Planned 
Interconnection Location); see also Deficiency Response at 14-15 (explaining that  
to determine whether such a network upgrade provides “sufficient benefit to load,”  
SPP will employ a benefit-to-cost ratio of 1.0 for justifying beneficial upgrades from  
the production cost simulation).  
119 Transmittal at 26; Locke Test. at 7-8. 
120 Transmittal at 68-69; Raheem Test. at 19.  SPP states that interconnection-
related facilities include transmission owner’s interconnection facilities, interconnection 
customer’s interconnection facilities, and other point of interconnection upgrades such as 
discrete substation network upgrades at the point of interconnection directly related to the 
interconnection request.  Raheem Test. at 19. 
121 Transmittal at 53. 

--- PAGE 85 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 29 - 
GRID-C rates and the subregional GRID-C rates that correspond to its subregion.  SPP 
explains that, mirroring SPP’s Highway/Byway cost allocation method, the region-wide 
GRID-C rates will be derived based on 100% of the costs of EHV facilities and 33% of 
the costs of the region’s total HV facilities.  The subregional GRID-C rates will be based 
on 67% of the costs of the HV facilities in the subregion where the interconnection 
request is located.122 
 
The proposed GRID-C framework also includes an inflation adjustment 
mechanism to account for inflation during the years following each CPP-20 in each 
planning cycle, with the GRID-C rates in those years updated to reflect a cost escalation 
factor using an index that measures inflation in the electric utility industry.123  Further, 
SPP will monitor differences between the upgrade cost estimates underlying each set of 
GRID-C rates and the final actual costs of the upgrades upon completion.  While the 
GRID-C rates for interconnection customers with executed GIAs will remain fixed, the 
proposed GRID-C framework includes a mechanism to update the GRID-C rates for 
future interconnection customers in future CPP planning cycles based upon the monitored 
differences in costs.124  SPP proposes that generator interconnection customers will be 
eligible for ILTCRs for the incremental available transfer capability created by the 
portion of the CPP upgrades for which they pay through GRID-C charges.125  SPP asserts 
this is consistent with Commission policy and, given that interconnection customers are 
 
122 SPP’s recently accepted subregional cost allocation filing established five 
subregions:  Southwest, Southeast, Central, Nebraska, and North.  See Sw. Power Pool, 
Inc., 193 FERC ¶ 61,244 at P 14.  SPP explains that these subregions are configured, 
among other purposes, to ensure that the large majority of designated resources 
associated with network loads are located in the same subregion as those loads.  SPP 
argues that this provides a means to align the interconnection customers, the cost of 
upgrades necessary to furnish network transmission service from those interconnection 
customers, and the network loads benefiting from such service.  Transmittal at 54. 
123 SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV.3 (0.0.0), §§ IV.3.8 (Cost Changes), 
IV.3.8.1 (Inflation Adjustment). 
124 When the average actual cost of CPP upgrades approved through a prior  
CPP-10 assessment exceeds a 10% variation over or under the estimated amount, SPP 
will develop an escalation or de-escalation factor for the purpose of establishing more 
accurate cost estimates, which will be applied in estimating the CPP upgrade costs and 
calculating the GRID-C rate in the next CPP-20.  Transmittal at 35-36; Locke Test. 27; 
SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV.3 (0.0.0), § IV.3.8.2 (GRID Contribution Cost 
True-Up). 
125 Transmittal at 77; Locke Test. at 21; SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. Z2, § IV 
(Incremental LTCRs) (5.0.0). 

--- PAGE 86 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 30 - 
already eligible for ILTCRs related to DAUC under its Tariff, will help ensure 
comparable treatment for interconnection customers as the level of DAUC is expected to 
diminish and be replaced by GRID-C charges under the CPP framework. 
(a) 
ERIS GRID-C Rate Calculation 
 
SPP proposes to calculate the ERIS GRID-C rates as the product of:  (1) the CPP-
20 portfolio’s engineering and construction costs, adjusted for inflation, that are specific 
to the region-wide or subregional categories using the Highway/Byway cost allocation 
method described above, excluding the cost of those CPP upgrades necessary for 
furnishing only NRIS;126 (2) the Transmission Utilization Factor;127 and (3) the Future 
Generation Non-Accredited Factor (Energy Factor).128  This product, for the region and 
each subregion, is then divided by the weighted nameplate MWs of projected future 
generation, in the region and each subregion, to derive a region-wide and subregional rate 
per MW, respectively.129     
 
SPP explains that the Transmission Utilization Factor accounts for the relative 
utilization of existing and planned EHV and HV facilities in the transmission system by 
current and prospective interconnection customers.130  By quantifying relative usage of 
 
126 Transmittal at 35-36, 88; SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV.3 (0.0.0),  
§§ IV.3.4 (GRID Contribution Calculation), IV.3.4.1.1 (CPP-20 Transmission Portfolio 
Cost Determination). 
127 SPP will calculate a separate Transmission Utilization Factor value for HV 
facilities and EHV facilities.  SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV.3 (0.0.0), 
§ IV.3.4.1.2 (Transmission Utilization Factor). 
128 SPP explains that the Future Generation Non-Accredited Factor is also referred 
to as the Energy Factor in its transmittal and testimonies.  Deficiency Response, app. A, 
n.2.  See, e.g., Transmittal at 37-38, 89; Locke Test. at 14-15; SPP, Proposed Tariff, 
attach. AY, § IV.3 (0.0.0), §§ IV.3.4.2 (ERIS GRID Rate Calculation), IV.3.4.1.3 (Future 
Generation Non-Accredited Factor).   
129 SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV.3 (0.0.0), §§ IV.3.4.1.1 (CPP-20 
Transmission Portfolio Cost Determination), IV.3.4.2 (ERIS GRID Rate Calculation), 
IV.3.4.1.2 (Transmission Utilization Factor), IV.3.4.1.3 (Future Generation Non-
Accredited Factor), IV.3.4.1.4 (Prospective Generation Megawatts Determination). 
130 Transmittal at 37-38 (citing SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV.3 (0.0.0),  
§ IV.3.4.1.2 (Transmission Utilization Factor)).  

--- PAGE 87 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 31 - 
the transmission system by future interconnection customers, SPP states that the factor  
is intended to reflect the benefit derived from the system by future generation.131  
 
SPP explains that the Energy Factor is intended to quantify the portion of 
transmission usage not required for meeting accredited capacity requirements.132  SPP 
notes that the Energy Factor is only applicable to generating facilities interconnecting 
under ERIS because ERIS does not guarantee deliverability service.133 
 
SPP explains that the ERIS GRID-C denominator is based on the average total 
MW of future generation in the region at years 10 and 20 and is weighted by the 
proportion of transmission portfolio costs required in years 10 and 20, respectively.134  
 
131 Id. at 88; SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § II (0.0.0).  SPP states that the 
Transmission Utilization Factor will be determined through an economic model 
simulating conditions in the twentieth year of the study horizon and will be applied to 
reflect the proportion of EHV and HV portfolio costs attributed to prospective 
interconnection customers based on their expected usage of the transmission system.   
The simulation will be conducted on an hourly basis, with results summarized in a ratio 
comparing the prospective generating facility’s MWh usage of the EHV and HV facilities 
to total MWh usage.  Transmittal at 37, 88; Deficiency Response at 6-7; Deficiency 
Response, app. A at 3.  SPP further explains that the Transmission Utilization Factor is 
calculated based on the single, consolidated set of transmission facilities in the CPP-20 
portfolio, which reflects transmission needs identified across the multiple futures 
included in the study scope.  SPP states that the Transmission Utilization Factor is not 
calculated separately by future and therefore is not optimized to any single futures 
forecast but instead reflects the expected use of the consolidated portfolio over time and 
across a range of plausible system conditions.  Deficiency Response at 6-7. 
132 Transmittal at 37; SPP December 9 Answer at 15; SPP, Proposed Tariff,  
attach. AY, § IV.3 (0.0.0), § IV.3.4.1.3 (Future Generation Non-Accredited Factor).   
SPP states that the Energy Factor is calculated as one minus the ratio of the total regional 
accredited capacity of future generation resources to the nameplate capacity of those 
future resources.  Transmittal at 37.  SPP clarifies that it determines the Energy Factor by 
averaging the non-accredited generation outcomes across the multiple futures included in 
the CPP-20 study scope.  Deficiency Response at 7.  SPP explains that the Energy Factor 
factors out the estimated accredited capacity needed to address peak hour resource 
adequacy requirements in order to identify the portion of future generation expected to 
provide “energy-only” service.  Deficiency Response, app. A at 3 (citing Draft CPP 
Manual, § 9.2.1.3). 
133 Deficiency Response, app. A at 3. 
134 SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV.3 (0.0.0), § IV.3.4.1.4 (Prospective 
Generation Megawatts Determination); Deficiency Response, app. A at 4-5.  SPP 
 

--- PAGE 88 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 32 - 
SPP contends that this weighting aligns the allocation of ERIS GRID-C costs with the 
magnitude and timing of transmission facilities buildout.135  SPP asserts that weighting 
the future generation nameplate MW by CPP-20 portfolio costs will improve cost 
causation by aligning near-term investments and long-term portfolio buildout with the 
corresponding levels of generation deliverability assumed in planning.136   
(b) 
NRIS GRID-C Rate Calculation 
 
SPP states that the NRIS region-wide and subregional GRID-C rates are based on 
the incremental costs, as allocated on a region-wide and subregional basis, respectively, 
for projected network upgrades in the CPP-20 transmission portfolio necessary to provide 
NRIS deliverability.137  Similar to the ERIS GRID-C, the NRIS GRID-C calculation will 
include regional and sub-regional components and follow the Highway/Byway cost 
allocation method.138  Specifically, the region-wide NRIS GRID-C calculation will  
sum 100% of the EHV CPP-20 portfolio costs and 33% of the HV CPP-20 portfolio  
costs needed to enable NRIS deliverability.139  This value will then be divided by a  
MW value of projected accredited generation weighted by costs, as described below.140  
The subregional NRIS GRID-C calculation will divide 67% of the subregion’s 
 
  
 
provides that the proportional costs at years 10 and 20 will be the incremental costs 
divided by total costs at year 20.  Deficiency Response, app. A at 4. 
135 Deficiency Response at 10. 
136 Id. at 11. 
137 Transmittal at 39-40, 89-90; SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV.3 (0.0.0), 
§§ IV.3.4.1.1 (CPP-20 Transmission Portfolio Cost Determination), IV.3.4.3 (NRIS 
GRID Contribution).  
138 Transmittal at 39; SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV.3 (0.0.0), § IV.3.4.3 
(NRIS GRID Contribution).   
139 SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV.3 (0.0.0), § IV.3.4.3 (NRIS GRID 
Contribution). 
140 Id., attach. AY, § IV.3 (0.0.0), § IV.3.4.1.4 (Prospective Generation Megawatts 
Determination). 

--- PAGE 89 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 33 - 
HV CPP-20 NRIS portfolio costs by a MW value of projected accredited generation 
weighted by costs, as described below.141   
 
SPP explains that the NRIS GRID-C denominator is the total MW of future 
accredited generation in the region at years 10 and 20 weighted by the proportion of 
NRIS transmission portfolio costs required in years 10 and 20, respectively.142  SPP states 
that weighting the future generation accredited MWs by transmission portfolio costs in 
the same manner as the ERIS GRID-C denominator creates consistency between the 
transmission investment in each time horizon and the level of accredited deliverable 
generation capacity for which transmission investment will be necessary to ensure 
deliverability.143   
 
SPP explains that, if a transmission owner identifies an NRIS generating facility as 
a designated resource prior to the commercial operation date, the interconnection 
customer’s NRIS GRID-C charge is eligible to be base plan funded (i.e., paid by load), 
subject to existing eligibility rules and safe harbor cost limits in Attachment J.144  SPP 
argues that this eligibility is consistent with the treatment of designated resources under 
SPP’s existing aggregate transmission service study. 
iii. 
Cost Allocation Justification 
 
SPP notes that the Commission and the courts have held that the costs of 
jurisdictional transmission facilities must be allocated in a manner that satisfies the cost 
causation principle, which requires that “all approved rates reflect to some degree the 
costs actually caused by the customer who must pay them.”145  SPP states that, as a result, 
a cost allocation method can satisfy the cost causation principle if the Commission “has 
an articulable and plausible reason to believe that the benefits are at least roughly 
 
141 Id., attach. AY, § IV.3 (0.0.0), §§ IV.3.4.3 (NRIS GRID Contribution), 
IV.3.4.1.4 (Prospective Generation Megawatts Determination). 
142 Id., attach. AY, § IV.3 (0.0.0), § IV.3.4.1.4 (Prospective Generation Megawatts 
Determination); Deficiency Response, app. A at 6-7.   
143 Deficiency Response at 12. 
144 Transmittal at 34-35 (citing Locke Test. at 19-20); SPP, Tariff, attach. Z1 
(Aggregate Transmission Service Study Procedures and Cost Allocation and Recovery 
for Service Upgrades) (0.0.0), § V (Cost Recovery for Service Upgrades) (3.0.0)).  
145 Transmittal at 47 (citing KN Energy, Inc. v. FERC, 968 F.2d 1295, 1300 (D.C. 
Cir. 1992)). 

--- PAGE 90 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 34 - 
commensurate with” the allocation of the costs.146  SPP also highlights that, while the 
Commission has traditionally applied its longstanding “but for” cost causation approach 
to generator interconnection, the Commission has recognized that it is not the only way to 
evaluate cost causation in the generator interconnection context.147  SPP concludes that 
the legal standard for evaluating cost causation in the generator interconnection context is 
“the FPA’s broad and flexible ‘just and reasonable’ standard, which the cost causation 
and beneficiary pays principles effectuate.”148  SPP argues that the proposed CPP cost 
allocation and cost recovery method is consistent with these established cost causation 
principles and precedent.149   
 
SPP explains that the CPP cost allocation method is designed to allocate the costs 
of new transmission facilities in a manner that is roughly commensurate with the benefits 
realized by load and generation for CPP upgrades developed to serve both load and 
generator interconnection.150  SPP explains that the CPP proposal does not modify SPP’s 
existing Highway/Byway cost allocation method for allocating the cost of transmission 
facilities to load.  However, SPP states, because generation in addition to load will 
significantly benefit from the CPP upgrades, generation will be allocated a portion of  
the costs of new transmission facilities in the form of GRID-C charges, which SPP will 
collect from interconnection customers and use to offset load’s obligations under 
Attachment J and Schedule 11 of its Tariff. 
 
In addition, SPP contends that its existing Highway/Byway cost allocation 
method, as well as the proposed CPP cost allocation method, comply with the regional 
cost allocation requirements and six cost allocation principles the Commission 
established in Order No. 1000 because:  (1) the CPP proposal and its implementation  
of GRID-C charges as an offset to Schedule 11 transmission charges meets the “roughly 
commensurate” standard; (2) the CPP reasonably aligns the costs associated with 
transmission expansion with load and generation’s usage of the transmission system;  
(3) neither the Highway/Byway cost allocation method nor the GRID-C method use a 
 
146 Id. at 48 (citing Ill. Com. Comm’n v. FERC, 576 F.3d 470, 477 (7th Cir. 2009) 
(“We do not suggest that the Commission has to calculate benefits to the last penny, or 
for that matter to the last million or ten million or perhaps hundred million dollars.”) 
(citations omitted)). 
147 Id. (citing Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 189 FERC ¶ 61,108 (2024) 
(JTIQ I), order on reh’g, 191 FERC ¶ 61,231, at P 34 (2025) (JTIQ II)). 
148 Id. (citing JTIQ II, 191 FERC ¶ 61,231 at P 34 & n.139).  
149 Id. at 49. 
150 Id. at 51-53. 

--- PAGE 91 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 35 - 
benefit-to-cost ratio greater than 1.25 to allocate costs; (4) the CPP proposal does not 
materially change the Tariff, which is already compliant; (5) the CPP proposal is not 
changing the Highway/Byway method; and (6) the CPP evaluates projects holistically 
and allocates costs based on voltage level in a manner that is roughly commensurate with 
benefits, based on use of the transmission system.151  
b. 
Comments and Protests 
 
Several supportive commenters contend that the proposed CPP cost allocation 
framework will allocate the cost of transmission facilities to load and interconnection 
customers in a manner at least “roughly commensurate” to benefits, as well as provide 
greater upfront cost certainty for interconnection customers.152   
 
SPP TO Group asserts that the existing cost allocation methods create incentives 
for load and interconnection customers to seek to place the responsibility for network 
upgrades on others.153  According to SPP TO Group, the CPP proposal corrects this issue, 
recognizing that all transmission projects are mutually impactful, and is designed to 
identify multi-driver transmission solutions that benefit both load and generation and that 
can be jointly funded.  Similarly, American Clean Power Association claims that network 
upgrade costs in SPP’s subregions have often been so expensive that interconnection 
requests were commercially unviable, which is due in part to a failure to address 
transmission issues in the ITP.154  American Clean Power Association argues that the 
CPP proposal will address misalignments in the current cost allocation methods through 
the GRID-C rate because interconnection customers will contribute a fair share of the 
cost of new regional transmission upgrades.  American Clean Power Association argues 
that interconnection customers will therefore help fund major transmission expansions 
that were previously not addressed in a coordinated manner between the current ITP and 
DISIS processes in return for a faster and more predictable interconnection study process 
with fewer network upgrades to fund on a purely “but for” basis.  
 
 
 
151 Id. at 59-63 (citing Order No. 1000, 136 FERC ¶ 61,051). 
152 American Clean Power Association Comments at 7; ITC Great Plains 
Comments at 5; PIOs Comments at 11-12; SEIA Comments at 3-4; SPP TO Group 
Comments at 10-13. 
153 SPP TO Group Comments at 7-8. 
154 American Clean Power Association Comments at 7-8. 

--- PAGE 92 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 36 - 
 
PIOs aver that the GRID-C framework will create transparent, roughly 
commensurate cost allocation in proportion to the benefits that interconnection customers 
receive.155  PIOs believe that the ERIS GRID-C rate will ensure that all interconnection 
customers contribute fairly to foundational network upgrades and that the NRIS GRID-C 
rate will ensure that only those interconnection customers seeking NRIS service pay for 
the incremental costs of transmission required to ensure deliverability.  PIOs argue that 
the CPP’s proposed “beneficiary pays” principle is logical, will create more equitable 
outcomes, and will consistently and fairly share transmission costs between generation 
and load.   
 
ITC Great Plains, SEIA, and SPP TO Group contend that the GRID-C method will 
establish a predictable rate for prospective interconnection customers before the queue 
cluster window opens, thereby providing greater cost certainty for developers and 
enabling more accurate assessments of project viability.156  Additionally, SEIA notes a 
recent study indicating that although GRID-C rates may produce higher fees than were 
assigned under the GIP, “most power plant developers believe the higher fees are 
justified, provided the process makes it more likely that new power plants are 
interconnected.”157  SEIA claims that the reduced barriers to competition will benefit 
ratepayers through increased resource development and more efficient market outcomes.  
Further, SEIA asserts that the more coordinated planning process can lead to more cost-
effective transmission development.158  For example, SEIA claims that the Elm Creek-
Pauline/Mark Moore 345 kV line repeatedly fell short of the benefit-to-cost threshold 
required for approval under the ITP process, and when its costs were assigned entirely to 
interconnection customers through the DISIS process, those interconnection customers 
withdrew due to the high costs.  SEIA states that a consolidated planning structure would 
help avoid similar missed opportunities by evaluating potential upgrades in a unified 
process. 
 
 
 
155 PIOs Comment at 11, 13-14. 
156 ITC Great Plains Comments at 5; SEIA Comments at 3-4; SPP TO Group 
Comments at 7-8. 
157 SEIA Comments at 3-4 (citing Solar and Storage Industries Institute, 
Interconnection Reform: How One Grid Operator is Changing the Game 5 (Nov. 24, 
2025), https://www.ssii.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/11/SI2-Game-Changing-Reform-
In-Practice-FINAL.pdf). 
158 Id. at 5-6. 

--- PAGE 93 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 37 - 
 
SPP TO Group argues that replacing the “but for” cost allocation with the new 
GRID-C ex ante approach is fully consistent with cost causation principles and is just and 
reasonable.159  SPP TO Group claims that the Commission has explained that the “but 
for” approach is not required by the FPA and that SPP is not obligated to evaluate costs 
and benefits on a project-by-project basis.160  Consistent with precedent, SPP TO Group 
argues that SPP cannot “feasibly” meet the challenges of interconnecting critically 
needed new generating facilities to its transmission system as long as interconnection 
studies are performed on a unit-by-unit basis to determine responsibility for network 
upgrade costs.161  Additionally, SPP TO Group argues that the GRID-C method satisfies 
the cost causation principle by assigning transmission costs based on factors such as the 
type of transmission project and location, accounting for the type of interconnection 
service, and including a mechanism that reasonably allocates costs to the SPP region as  
a whole and to subregions on a “roughly commensurate” basis.  Moreover, SPP TO 
Group argues that the CPP-20 is consistent with the Commission’s determination in 
Order No. 1920 that “a time horizon that covers, at a minimum, 20 years” is reasonable 
because “the useful life of transmission assets generally far exceeds even 20 years, so a 
10-year transmission planning horizon is much too short to capture all of the benefits  
that regional transmission facilities can provide.”162  Further, SPP TO Group contends 
that by using the same percentage allocation factors previously approved for SPP’s 
Highway/Byway cost allocation, the GRID-C’s subregional allocation method 
mechanism will result in closer correlation between the costs and benefits associated  
with interconnection customers that situate their projects in a particular area.   
 
SPP TO Group also argues that, consistent with the treatment of upgrades to 
provide long-term transmission service under existing Attachment Z1 of the Tariff, if a 
transmission owner identifies a given NRIS generating facility as a designated resource 
prior to reaching commercial operation, the NRIS GRID-C rate for the interconnection 
customer is reduced or eliminated because the upgrades qualify as base plan upgrades.163   
 
159 SPP TO Group Comments at 9-10. 
160 Id. at 10 (citing JTIQ II, 191 FERC ¶ 61,231 at P 34; Long Island Power Auth. 
v. FERC, 27 F.4th 705, 715 (D.C. Cir. 2022)). 
161 Id. (citing Sithe/Indep. Power Partners, L.P. v. FERC, 285 F.3d 1, 5 (D.C. Cir. 
2002) (explaining that when “feasibility concerns” arise, the Commission “is not bound 
to reject any rate mechanism that tracks the cost-causation principles less than 
perfectly”)). 
162 Id. at 12 (citing Order No. 1920, 187 FERC ¶ 61,068 at PP 116, 225). 
163 Id. at 14. 

--- PAGE 94 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 38 - 
 
Additionally, SPP TO Group avers that imposing DAUC for network upgrades 
needed for interconnection customers interconnecting at UPILs, in addition to the GRID-
C charge, is reasonable because an interconnection customer choosing to locate at a UPIL 
will still realize benefits from the network upgrades associated with GRID-C even with 
the addition of any network upgrades associated with DAUC.164 
 
However, several commenters raise concerns that GRID-C rates may become too 
high to be commercially viable.165  American Clean Power Association asserts that 
exceptionally high-cost transmission projects could cause very high GRID-C charges.166  
American Clean Power Association contends that the first CPP-20 and CPP-10 studies 
are likely to identify EHV facilities to meet long-term needs, which may make the first 
GRID-C charges significantly higher than the network upgrade costs under the DISIS.167  
American Clean Power Association avers that cost certainty should not come at the cost 
of cost realism, given that high GRID-C charges may be cost prohibitive for 
interconnection customers, which would undermine the CPP’s goal of an efficient queue.  
Advanced Energy United argues that while the CPP offers greater planning and cost 
certainty, its success will be undermined if the all-in costs of GRID-C exceed commercial 
viability.168  Advanced Energy United argues that maintaining the CPP’s value 
proposition will require close attention to the scale and pacing of transmission portfolios 
feeding into GRID-C rates and possible cost containment measures on transmission 
portfolios.  Additionally, while SEIA states that the CPP proposal is consistent with the 
Commission’s cost causation principle and agrees that the proposed framework is a more 
cost-effective way to plan the transmission system as noted above, SEIA also avers that it 
is essential that the GRID-C rate be implemented transparently and consistently to ensure 
it does not inadvertently disadvantage independent power producers by embedding 
upgrade costs at levels that could limit competition.169  
 
 
 
164 Id. at 13. 
165 Advanced Energy United Comments at 14-16; American Clean Power 
Association Comments at 8-9; PIOs Deficiency Response Comments at 2; SEIA 
Comments at 6. 
166 American Clean Power Association Comments at 8. 
167 Id. at 9. 
168 Advanced Energy United Comments at 14-16. 
169 SEIA Comments at 6. 

--- PAGE 95 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 39 - 
 
APA argues that, in order to ensure that the GRID-C rate is just and reasonable 
and consistent with cost causation, SPP must clarify that it interprets the proposed 
Transmission Utilization Factor to be “subject to a check” to ensure that the relative 
proportion of costs allocated to load compared to interconnection customers is roughly 
commensurate with the benefits each receives.170  APA notes that the Transmission 
Utilization Factor is not an actual measure of usage, but rather a projection based on 
modelling and expectations of future system conditions.  APA further notes that the 
Transmission Utilization Factor will be a ratio comparing the prospective generator MWh 
usage of the EHV and HV transmission system to total MWh usage and is thus intended 
to account for the relative utilization of the existing and planned EHV and HV facilities 
by both current and prospective customers.171  However, APA argues that the relative 
utilization of transmission infrastructure between new and existing generation does not 
speak to the relative benefits of that transmission between load and interconnection 
customers.  Specifically, APA argues that while a higher Transmission Utilization Factor 
may signify that new, rather than existing generation, is expected to make predominant 
use of the new transmission capacity, it does not signify that load is somehow benefiting 
less from the CPP upgrades.  APA asserts that, if the Transmission Utilization Factor 
becomes high enough, there is a risk that load will end up not paying its “fair share,” 
relative to the benefits it receives.172  
 
APA argues that SPP should therefore clarify that it will include a check to ensure 
that the selected Transmission Utilization Factor does not result in either new generation 
or load paying a share of costs that are not roughly commensurate with the expected 
benefits of CPP upgrades.173  APA asserts that SPP could clarify in the CPP Manual the 
specific mechanism by which it would complete this check, which could entail using the 
benefits estimated pursuant to proposed Attachment AY, section IV.1.9 (Benefits 
Evaluation) as a benchmark to ensure that the charges to load remain roughly 
commensurate with those benefits.  In addition, APA argues that SPP should clarify how 
it reconciles differences in generation in the multiple futures used in the CPP-20 study 
scope when determining the Transmission Utilization Factor and Energy Factor in the 
GRID-C calculation.174   
 
170 APA Protest at 1, 5-6. 
171 Id. at 6 (citing Transmittal at 37-38; Raheem Test. at 13). 
172 Id. at 6-7. 
173 Id.at 7. 
174 APA Deficiency Response Protest at 9. 

--- PAGE 96 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 40 - 
 
APA also expresses concern that, without a mechanism to cap costs or to estimate 
benefits to interconnection customers, there is a substantial risk that the GRID-C will be 
unjust and unreasonable.175  APA avers that the ERIS GRID-C rates are highly dependent 
on the size of the CPP-20 portfolio, regardless of its benefits to generation, and that the 
projected GRID-C rates are likely to produce notably higher interconnection costs than 
most historical interconnection costs for successful generation in the SPP footprint.176  
While APA states that it is aware of the Tariff provision that indicates that the cost-to-
benefit analysis for CPP upgrades may confer additional benefits to interconnection 
customers, APA asserts that the mechanism to identify and track such benefits has yet to 
be developed, which is problematic for the transition to the CPP.177  According to APA, 
SPP presented formulas during stakeholder meetings that utilized rate caps based on 
highest costs that historically resulted in successful interconnections in a sensitivity 
analysis.178  APA asserts that the cap presented to stakeholders provided a surrogate for 
helping to ensure that the GRID-C rate was not prohibitively high, but APA contends that 
neither this nor any other cap was included in the CPP.179   
 
APA also argues that interconnection customers that connect at UPILs should not 
be directly assigned the entire cost of additional needed network upgrades.180  Instead, 
APA argues that the assessed DAUC should only be at the level of cost necessary to push 
the benefit-to-cost ratio for load of the particular network upgrade beyond the minimum 
1.0 benefit-to-cost ratio.  
 
Some commenters also request that the Commission establish reporting 
requirements for CPP implementation.181  Advanced Energy United urges the 
Commission to monitor the cost trajectory of the GRID-C and recommends that the 
 
175 Id. at 4. 
176 Id. at 3, 4 (citing Sw. Power Pool, Inc., CPP Entry Fee Presentation at Slide 9, 
RSC Education Session, (Mar. 14, 2025)). 
177 Id. at 3 (citing SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV.1 (0.0.0), § IV.1.1.10g 
(Cost Effectiveness Evaluation)). 
178 Id. at 4 (citing Sw. Power Pool, Inc., Consolidated Planning Process Task 
Force, (Nov. 18, 2024), Slide 21, Entry Fee (Network Upgrade Contribution: NUC)). 
179 Id. 
180 Id. at 8-9 (citing Deficiency Response at 25). 
181 Advanced Energy United Comments at 15-16; American Clean Power 
Association Comments at 9-10; APA Protest at 8-9; SEIA Comments at 6-7. 

--- PAGE 97 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 41 - 
Commission require SPP to provide periodic reporting on GRID-C costs and cost drivers, 
including which CPP upgrades were selected for inclusion and how costs were allocated 
between load and generation, in order to confirm that all-in costs of interconnection 
remain within commercially viable ranges.182  SEIA likewise requests that the 
Commission leverage its oversight authority by requiring SPP to file annual reports 
identifying which CPP upgrades have been reflected in the GRID-C rate and how those 
CPP upgrades were selected through the CPP process.183  SEIA asserts that while CPP 
has the potential to streamline and provide certainty to the transmission planning and 
generator interconnection processes, the CPP is a new and novel process, and a reporting 
requirement will ensure that the Commission, stakeholders, and customers have visibility 
into how costs are being allocated and whether the CPP is delivering the efficiency and 
cost-effectiveness it is designed to achieve.  American Clean Power Association and 
APA assert that the Commission should require SPP to provide compliance reports for 
the first two cycles utilizing GRID-C rates no later than 60 days after the determination 
of the GRID-C charge.184  American Clean Power Association and APA argue that the 
reporting should include:  (1) the amount of GRID-C charged; (2) the estimated cost of 
network upgrades to interconnect the generation at PILs based upon a “but for” analysis; 
(3) the total cost of interconnecting new NRIS/ERIS generation at PILs on a nameplate 
and accredited capacity basis; (4) the relative cost share of load and interconnection 
customers; (5) the number and associated MWs of interconnection customers that will 
pay the GRID-C rate on a zonal basis; and (6) the estimated benefits to load and 
interconnection customers of the CPP upgrades included in the GRID-C rate.185  
American Clean Power Association asserts that the Commission has previously required 
that RTOs submit status reports when implementing significant market design or 
interconnection reforms,186 and that transparent data will both support resource 
development in the SPP footprint and help SPP to adjust the framework in the multi-
phase, iterative CPP effort.187   
 
182 Advanced Energy United Comments at 15-16. 
183 SEIA Comments at 1, 6-7. 
184 American Clean Power Association Comments at 9; APA Protest at 8-9. 
185 American Clean Power Association Comments at 10. 
186 Id. at 10-12 (citing Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 190 FERC ¶ 61,030, at P 37 (2025) 
(“[W]e direct SPP to submit a joint informational report every six months during the 
implementation period, as well as every six months for a period of three years after the 
Markets+ Tariff effective date.”)).  
187 Id. at 11-12. 

--- PAGE 98 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 42 - 
c. 
Answers 
 
In response to commenters, SPP argues that the GRID-C mechanisms ensure that 
cost allocation between load and generation is roughly commensurate with benefits.188  
SPP reiterates that the ERIS GRID-C mechanism is intended to provide upfront cost 
certainty to interconnection customers and is designed to account for the relative MWh 
utilization of existing and planned EHV and HV facilities in the transmission system by 
current and prospective interconnection customers.189  Further, SPP asserts that, contrary 
to APA’s arguments, the proposed ERIS GRID-C rate design already provides reductions 
for usage by load.190  SPP explains that the ERIS GRID-C rate reflects a direct measure 
of transmission utilization, which, SPP contends, is the benefit derived from the 
transmission system by future generation.  SPP states that to align usage with ERIS, SPP 
further adjusts transmission usage by a factor that “quantifies the portion of usage not 
required for meeting generation capacity requirements.”191  SPP argues that this approach 
reduces anticipated utilization by generation to account for load’s requirements and need 
for generation, which allows the ERIS GRID-C rate to reflect the nature of ERIS as an 
“as-available” service.  SPP states that adjusting the Transmission Utilization Factor by 
the percentage of transmission services used by load to meet resource adequacy needs 
further reduces the ERIS GRID-C rate to ensure that interconnection customers are not 
paying cost associated with benefits to load.192  In addition, SPP emphasizes that if a 
transmission owner identifies a given NRIS generating facility as a designated resource 
prior to reaching commercial operation, its NRIS GRID-C charge is eligible to be base 
plan funded (i.e., paid by load) subject to the existing requirements of Attachment J, 
section III.B.193  Thus, SPP argues that protections are already in place to ensure that 
costs are allocated to generation and load in a manner at least roughly commensurate to 
the benefits each receives and that, therefore, no further clarification as requested by 
APA is required.  Furthermore, SPP states that, consistent with its cost allocation 
reporting practices, it intends to monitor on an ongoing basis the CPP and its benefits to 
both load and generation to help ensure that benefits remain reasonably commensurate 
 
188 SPP December 9 Answer at 12. 
189 Id. (citing SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV.3 (0.0.0), § IV.3.4.1.2 
(Transmission Utilization Factor)). 
190 Id. at 14 (citing Transmittal at 37-40). 
191 Id. at 14-15 (citing Raheem Test. at 14-16). 
192 Id. at 15 (citing SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV.3 (0.0.0), § IV.3.4.1.3 
(Future Generation Non-Accredited Factor)). 
193 Id. at 15-16. 

--- PAGE 99 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 43 - 
with allocated costs.194  SPP also notes that stakeholders will have the opportunity to 
work with SPP to develop a detailed and transparent methodology for identifying 
generator benefits under the CPP for incorporation into the CPP Manual. 
 
SPP argues that commenters’ requests for reporting are unnecessary, duplicative 
of already available information, and burdensome.195  SPP contends that its existing and 
proposed Tariff provides extensive transparency and meaningful participation for 
interested parties through stakeholder processes and Tariff-mandated reporting 
requirements.196  SPP outlines that, among other things, reporting on transmission  
system planning will include:  (1) public posting of CPP-10 and CPP-20 study schedules 
and process information, including timelines and processes for stakeholder submission  
of transmission needs, potential generator interconnection locations, and solutions  
to such needs; (2) posting of the CPP-10 and CPP-20 transmission assessment scopes;  
(3) specification of methodology, criteria, assumptions, and data to be used in 
transmission assessments in the CPP Manual; (4) collection and reporting of data related 
to the yearly SPP Transmission Expansion Plan, which will also provide data and results 
from each annual CPP transmission assessment; and (5) public posting of transmission 
assessment reports summarizing findings.197  In particular, SPP notes that each CPP-20 
report will include a determination of the ERIS Region-wide, ERIS Subregional, NRIS 
Region-wide, and NRIS Subregional GRID-C rates, with related studies and criteria, 
assumptions, and data underlying the reports available on SPP’s website.198  Further, SPP 
states that PILs will be updated each CPP-20 and posted on SPP’s website, with PIL 
identification also subject to stakeholder review and approval.  Finally, SPP argues that 
APA and American Clean Power Association’s requests that SPP provide “but for” 
analysis are unsupported and unnecessary to make the proposed GRID-C rate just and 
reasonable.199 
 
194 SPP January 29 Answer at 11. 
195 SPP December 9 Answer at 6. 
196 Id. at 6-7. 
197 Id. at 7-8. 
198 Id. at 8 (citing SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV.1 (0.0.0), § IV.1.12 
(Reporting)). 
 
199 Id. at 10 (citing APA Protest at 8; American Clean Power Association 
Comments at 10).  

--- PAGE 100 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 44 - 
d. 
Commission Determination 
i. 
GRID-C Mechanism 
 
We find that SPP’s proposed GRID-C mechanism is just and reasonable and not 
unduly discriminatory or preferential.  SPP’s proposed CPP framework presents a novel 
approach where SPP, as the transmission provider, will analyze the projected needs of 
future interconnection customers, incorporate that analysis into its regional transmission 
planning process, and then allocate a share of the costs of the transmission upgrades 
identified in that planning process to interconnection customers.  Under this framework, 
unlike under typical generator interconnection procedures where the Commission has 
applied the “but for” principle, the specific interconnection customers and exact network 
upgrades needed to effectuate their interconnection are not definitively known before the 
CPP-20 portfolio is identified and the GRID-C rate is calculated.  In that regard, we find 
that SPP’s CPP proposal is more akin to a transmission planning process that identifies 
effective regional transmission solutions to address transmission needs than to a 
traditional, reactive generator interconnection process that identifies only those network 
upgrades needed to accommodate a specific interconnection request or cluster of 
interconnection requests.200  As such, we apply the Commission’s “beneficiary pays” 
application of the cost causation principle to the proposed GRID-C mechanism to 
determine whether it is just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or preferential.   
 
Under Commission precedent, costs must be allocated according to the cost 
causation principle, which requires that “all approved rates reflect to some degree the 
costs actually caused by the customer who must pay them.”201  Courts have further 
explained that, to “the extent that a utility benefits from the costs of new facilities, it may 
be said to have ‘caused’ a part of those costs to be incurred, as without the expectation of 
its contributions the facilities might not have been built, or might have been delayed.”202  
As a result, a cost allocation method can satisfy the cost causation principle if the 
Commission “has an articulable and plausible reason to believe that the benefits are at 
 
 
 
200 For this reason, we decline to apply the Commission’s participant funding 
precedent for interconnection-related network upgrades in RTOs/ISOs to this proposal. 
Thus, it is unnecessary to apply the independent entity variation standard to evaluate the 
GRID-C mechanism. 
201 KN Energy, Inc. v. FERC, 968 F.2d 1295, 1300 (D.C. Cir. 1992).  
202 Ill. Commerce Comm’n v. FERC, 576 F.3d at 476. 

--- PAGE 101 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 45 - 
least roughly commensurate with” the allocation of the costs.203  In this order, we refer  
to this application of the cost causation principle as “beneficiary pays.”    
 
We find that SPP’s proposed GRID-C mechanism satisfies the Commission’s 
“beneficiary pays” application of the cost causation principle because it will allocate 
costs in a manner that is at least roughly commensurate with the estimated benefits.  
SPP’s proposal to use the CPP-20 planning process to identify projected transmission 
upgrades and to require interconnection customers to contribute toward CPP upgrade 
costs through payment of the GRID-C charge is just and reasonable because the CPP  
will identify transmission facilities that, while benefitting load, are also necessary to 
enable the future interconnection of generating facilities to SPP’s transmission system.  
Accordingly, interconnection customers in SPP will benefit from CPP upgrades, and it  
is thus consistent with the “beneficiary pays” application of the cost causation principle 
for SPP to allocate them a portion of the costs of such upgrades.  Further, we note that 
interconnection customers will be eligible to receive compensation in the form of 
ILTCRs related to the incremental available transfer capability created by the portion of 
the CPP upgrades for which they pay through GRID-C charges.204  As a result, we find 
that SPP’s proposed cost allocation method, including the GRID-C mechanism, will 
ensure that the costs of anticipated network upgrades identified to meet the needs of 
future generation and load are allocated to both prospective generator interconnection 
customers and to load in a manner that is at least roughly commensurate to benefits. 
 
Next, we find that SPP’s proposed ERIS GRID-C charge will allocate costs to 
interconnection customers requesting ERIS in a manner that is at least roughly 
commensurate with estimated benefits because the incorporation of the Transmission 
Utilization Factor and the Energy Factor into the proposed ERIS GRID-C rates 
calculation reflects both the relative MWh utilization of transmission facilities by future 
interconnection customers (as opposed to existing interconnection customers) and the 
portion of that transmission system usage not required for meeting accredited capacity 
requirements, respectively.  As such, we agree with SPP that the proposed calculation 
reasonably reflects the nature of ERIS as an “as available” interconnection service by 
identifying the portion of future generation expected to provide energy-only service 
rather than accredited capacity for peak hour resource adequacy.205  APA argues that 
certain components of the ERIS GRID-C calculation render the proposed GRID-C rates 
unjust and unreasonable.  Specifically, APA argues that further clarification is necessary 
regarding the incorporation of the multiple futures contained in the CPP-20 study scope 
 
203 Id. at 477.   
204 Transmittal at 77; Locke Test. at 21; SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. Z2, § IV 
(Incremental LTCRs) (5.0.0). 
205 Deficiency Response, app. A at 3; SPP December 9 Answer at 14-15. 

--- PAGE 102 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 46 - 
into the GRID-C calculation.206  However, we note that SPP has clarified that the Energy 
Factor is determined by averaging non-accredited generation outcomes across the futures 
included in the CPP-20 study scope and that the Transmission Utilization Factor is not 
calculated separately by future but instead reflects the expected use of the CPP-20 
portfolio over time.207 
 
We also disagree with APA’s argument that the proposed cost allocation 
framework, including the GRID-C mechanism, is unjust and unreasonable unless the 
Transmission Utilization Factor, a component of the ERIS GRID-C rate calculation,  
is further “subject to a check” to ensure that costs are allocated to both load and 
interconnection customers in a manner at least roughly commensurate to benefits.  As 
SPP explains, the Transmission Utilization Factor is not the only component of the ERIS 
GRID-C formula.  Specifically, as noted above, the ERIS GRID-C rate is further adjusted 
by the Energy Factor, which quantifies the portion of transmission system usage not 
required for meeting accredited capacity requirements to account for the limited nature of 
ERIS, under which the interconnection customer may use the transmission system only 
on an “as available” basis.  We find that SPP has demonstrated that its proposed ERIS 
GRID-C charge reasonably reflects the benefits of CPP upgrades to interconnection 
customers requesting ERIS by accounting for the limited nature of such service, such  
that the proposed ERIS GRID-C charge allocates the costs of CPP upgrades to such 
interconnection customers in a manner that is at least roughly commensurate with the 
benefits that they will receive from CPP upgrades.  And since SPP has met its burden to 
demonstrate that its proposal is just and reasonable, we need not consider whether its 
proposal is “more or less reasonable” than alternatives APA suggests.208    
 
We also find that the NRIS GRID-C rate will allocate costs of CPP upgrades  
to interconnection customers that request NRIS in a manner that is at least roughly 
commensurate with estimated benefits because it accounts for the costs of only those 
incremental upgrades in the CPP-20 portfolio needed to enable NRIS deliverability  
of future NRIS generating facilities.  Moreover, under SPP’s proposal, if an NRIS 
generating facility is determined to be a designated resource for load within the 
resource’s deliverability area prior to the commercial operation date, the interconnection 
customer’s NRIS GRID-C charge is eligible for base plan funding (i.e., paid by load) 
 
 
206 APA Deficiency Response Protest at 9. 
207 Deficiency Response at 6-7. 
208 Cities of Bethany v. FERC, 727 F.2d 1131, 1136 (D.C. Cir. 1984) (finding that, 
when determining whether a rate was just and reasonable, the Commission properly did 
not consider “whether a proposed rate schedule is more or less reasonable than alternative 
rate designs”). 

--- PAGE 103 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 47 - 
subject to the existing requirements of Attachment J, section III.B of the Tariff, further 
ensuring that costs are allocated in a manner at least roughly commensurate to benefits. 
 
 
 SPP also proposes to calculate both subregional and regional ERIS and NRIS 
GRID-C charges, which is a mechanism that mirrors SPP’s existing Highway/Byway cost 
allocation method by allocating the costs of CPP upgrades based on their voltage level, 
which the Commission has previously found to be consistent with the cost causation 
principle because it reflects the benefits that transmission facilities in the SPP region 
provide.209  Consistent with the Highway/Byway cost allocation method, 100% of the 
costs of CPP upgrades that are EHV facilities will be allocated on a regional basis 
through the regional GRID-C charge, while 33% of the costs of CPP upgrades that are 
HV facilities will be allocated on a regional basis through the regional GRID-C charge 
and 67% of their costs will be allocated on a subregional basis through the subregional 
GRID-C charge.  As such, we find that SPP’s proposed regional and subregional ERIS 
and NRIS GRID-C charges are just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or 
preferential because they reasonably reflect the benefits that CPP upgrades that are EHV 
facilities and those that are HV facilities, respectively, will provide to interconnection 
customers based on the subregion in which an interconnection customer is requesting to 
interconnect its generating facility.   
ii. 
Directly Assigned Network Upgrade Costs 
 
We find that SPP’s proposal to directly assign to interconnection customers  
the cost of interconnection facilities, substation network upgrades at the point of 
interconnection, and any needed sub-100 kV network upgrades as determined in  
the ICS process, as well as the cost of any additional network upgrades needed for 
interconnections at UPILs, is just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or 
preferential and accomplishes the purposes of the Commission’s final rules on generator 
interconnection, including Order Nos. 2003 and 2023, by helping to ensure that 
interconnection customers are able to interconnect to the transmission system in a 
 
 
209 Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 131 FERC ¶ 61,252, at PP 73, 94 (2010) (concluding that 
SPP had demonstrated that EHV facilities tend to support regional power flows among 
the SPP zones and that lower voltage facilities tend to support local power flows within  
a single SPP zone), order on reh’g, 137 FERC ¶ 61,075 (2011); Sw. Power Pool, Inc.,  
193 FERC ¶ 61,244 at PP 73-76 (concluding that SPP demonstrated that replacing zonal 
allocation with a subregional allocation for Byway facilities satisfies the cost causation 
principle and will allocate costs in a manner that is at least roughly commensurate with 
the benefits they provide). 

--- PAGE 104 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 48 - 
reliable, efficient, transparent, and timely manner.210  These facilities are neither studied 
in the CPP-20 transmission assessment nor included in the CPP-20 portfolio costs that are 
the basis for the GRID-C rates.  In other words, these facilities would not be needed “but 
for” the requested interconnection of the specific interconnection customer to whom the 
costs will be directly assigned.  Accordingly, we evaluate SPP’s proposal to directly 
assign these interconnection-related costs to interconnection customers by applying our 
precedent concerning cost assignment for interconnection facilities and interconnection-
related network upgrades.   
 
As discussed above, under the Commission’s pricing policy for interconnection-
related network upgrades adopted in the Order No. 2003 pro forma large generator 
interconnection agreement, the costs of network upgrades that would not be needed but 
for the interconnection (i.e., “but for” costs) are funded initially by the interconnection 
customer as construction costs are incurred, unless the transmission provider elects to 
fund the construction itself, and then reimbursed to the interconnection customer, over 
time, as credits for transmission service or cash repayments.211  However, the 
Commission in Order No. 2003 allowed RTOs/ISOs flexibility to propose alternative 
interconnection pricing mechanisms, subject to Commission approval, under the 
independent entity variation standard.212  Specifically, an RTO/ISO could propose to 
directly assign network upgrade costs to the interconnection customer where well-defined 
rights to capacity made available by such network upgrades are provided to the 
interconnection customer.213  As noted above, the Commission has previously approved 
the use of participant funding for interconnection-related network upgrades in SPP, with 
interconnection customers eligible to receive ILTCR as compensation.214  Here, SPP 
proposes to directly assign an interconnection customer’s “but for” costs – namely, the 
costs of additional network upgrades needed for interconnections at UPILs, and the costs 
of interconnection facilities and sub-100 kV network upgrades for interconnections at 
both UPILs and PILs.  Accordingly, consistent with the Commission’s prior approval  
of the use of participant funding for network upgrades in SPP, with interconnection 
 
 
 
210 Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103 at PP 26, 827; Order No. 2023, 184 FERC 
¶ 61,054 at P 1.   
211 Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103 at PP 21, 22.   
212 Id. P 698. 
213 Id. PP 699-700. 
214 See supra P 5.    

--- PAGE 105 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 49 - 
customers eligible to receive ILTCRs as compensation,215 we find that SPP’s proposal is 
just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or preferential and accomplishes the 
purposes of Order No. 2003.216      
 
We disagree with APA’s argument that SPP should directly assign to 
interconnection customers at UPILs only the costs necessary to raise the benefit-to-cost 
ratio of the particular network upgrade beyond the minimum 1.0 benefit-to-cost ratio for 
load.217  As discussed above, we find that it is just and reasonable and not unduly 
discriminatory or preferential for SPP to continue to apply the “but for” principle with 
respect to:  (1) additional network upgrades needed for interconnections at UPILs; and 
(2) interconnection facilities, substation network upgrades at the point of interconnection, 
and sub-100 kV network upgrades for interconnections at both UPILs and PILs.  Given 
that these facilities would not be needed “but for” the interconnection customer’s 
interconnection and are not identified through a transmission planning process, we find 
that it is just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or preferential for SPP to 
directly assign all of their costs to the interconnection customer, consistent with the 
Commission’s approval of participant funding for interconnection-related network 
upgrades in SPP.  As such, we need not consider whether SPP’s proposal is “more or less 
reasonable” than other alternatives.218  Moreover, we note that, to the extent that an 
interconnection-related network upgrade whose costs are directly assigned to one or more 
interconnection customers is identified in the CPP-10 as providing sufficient benefit to 
load, the interconnection customer’s DAUC may be reduced or eliminated.219 
 
215 See Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 122 FERC ¶ 61,060 at P 30; Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 
152 FERC ¶ 61,034 at P 48. 
216 We note that SPP’s proposed GCP provisions outlining the proportional impact 
cost allocation approach for assessing additional network upgrade costs to 
interconnection customers with interconnection requests at UPILs incorporates SPP’s 
existing Order No. 2023-compliant proportional impact cost allocation method.  See SPP, 
Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § 4 (0.0.0), § 4.2.2 (Cost Allocation for Interconnection 
Facilities and Network Upgrades); see also Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 191 FERC ¶ 61,230 at 
P 88. 
217 APA Deficiency Response at 8-9 (citing Deficiency Response at 25). 
218 Cities of Bethany v. FERC, 727 F.2d at 1136. 
219 SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § V.3 (0.0.0), § V.3.3A.1 (Planned 
Interconnection Location).  See also Deficiency Response at 14-15 (explaining that  
to determine whether such a network upgrade provides “sufficient benefit to load,” 
 
  
 

--- PAGE 106 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 50 - 
iii. 
Reporting 
 
While we acknowledge potential concerns about escalating transmission and 
generator interconnection-related costs, as well as concerns that GRID-C rates could 
potentially become too high to be commercially viable, generator interconnection cost 
concerns predate the CPP proposal, and SPP has stated its intention to monitor the CPP to 
help ensure that costs and benefits remain aligned.220  We also note that the proposed 
CPP framework provides transparency and opportunity for stakeholder participation in 
the transmission planning process.  Moreover, we agree with SPP that not only does the 
CPP proposal include sufficient reporting requirements throughout the CPP-10 and CPP-
20 and the SPP Transmission Expansion Plan, but also that any additional reporting may 
be duplicative.221  For these reasons, we deny requests for further reporting.   
3. 
Generator Connection Procedures 
a. 
SPP Proposal 
 
SPP proposes to study CPP interconnection requests under its proposed ICS 
process contained in the new GCP, which is based on SPP’s existing GIP with revisions 
to reflect the CPP framework.222  SPP states that the annual ICS process will begin with a 
60-day queue cluster window for submission of interconnection requests that will run 
each year from December 15 to February 15 of the following year.223  SPP explains that it 
will post the GRID-C rates and PILs for the applicable ICS on its website prior to the 
opening of the queue cluster window, providing interconnection customers with upfront 
cost certainty and optimal locations to interconnect before interconnection customers 
 
SPP will employ a benefit-to-cost ratio of 1.0 for justifying beneficial upgrades from the 
production cost simulation).  
220 SPP December 9 Answer at 17; SPP January 29 Answer at 11. 
221 SPP December 9 Answer at 6-10. 
222 Transmittal at 27, 67.  The GCP will not apply to requests for small generating 
facilities no larger than 2 MW, generating facility replacement, generating facility 
modifications for an existing generating facility, surplus interconnection service, and 
interim interconnection service, which will remain under SPP’s GIP.  See SPP, Proposed 
Tariff, attach. AY, § V.2 (Scope and Application of this GCP) (0.0.0), § V.2.1 
(Application of Generator Connection Procedures).  
223 Transmittal at 28; SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § V.3 (0.0.0), § V.3.4.1 
(ICS Queue Cluster Window).  As described further below, the first 60-day queue cluster 
window will begin after an initial CPP transition period.    

--- PAGE 107 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 51 - 
submit interconnection requests.  SPP explains that interconnection customers must 
submit all required items including, among other things, a non-refundable $10,000 
application fee, a study deposit, site control demonstration for 100% of the generating 
facility and 50% of the generating facility tie-line or financial security in lieu of 
demonstrating site control, and financial security in the amount equal to the greater of 
20% of the GRID-C charge or $8,000/MW of the requested ERIS or NRIS maximum 
injection capability (Financial Security One).224  SPP notes that the financial security 
amount is higher at this stage than under the current DISIS process because, under the 
CPP, interconnection customers have more cost certainty, which should lessen the need 
for interconnection customers to submit multiple, speculative interconnection requests.225  
SPP states that the queue cluster window is followed by a 60-day review period, during 
which an interconnection customer may resolve any deficiencies in its interconnection 
request.226  SPP states that it will consider all validated interconnection requests from a 
single queue cluster window to be equally queued. 
 SPP states that during the 180-day ICS, it will conduct a cluster study of the 
impacts of the interconnection requests at their requested point of interconnection.227  
During the ICS, SPP will also conduct a facilities analysis to identify the equipment 
requirements and estimated cost to interconnect a generating facility to the transmission 
system.228  The resulting ICS report will identify any DAUC allocated to interconnection 
 
224 Transmittal at 27-28; SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § V.3 (0.0.0), § V.3.1 
(Study Deposits), § V.8 (0.0.0), § V.8.2 (Execution of CPP Generator Interconnection 
Study Agreement).  
225 Transmittal at 29.  
226 Id.; SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § V.8 (0.0.0), § V.8.3 (ICS Review 
Period). 
227 SPP states that it may elect not to perform certain studies described in proposed 
Attachment AY, section V.8.4 if the point of interconnection included in an 
interconnection request is at a PIL, if those studies were already performed during the 
CPP-20 transmission assessment identifying the PIL.  Transmittal at 29, n.104 (citing 
SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § V.8 (0.0.0), § V.8.4 (ICS Study)).  
228 SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § II (0.0.0); id., attach. AY, § V.8 (0.0.0),  
§ V.8.4.4 (Facilities Analysis).  The facilities analysis will identify the electrical 
switching configuration of the connection equipment, including:  the transformer, 
switchgear, meters, and other station equipment; the nature and estimated cost of any 
transmission owner’s interconnection facilities and network upgrades necessary to 
accomplish the interconnection; and an estimate of the time required to complete the 
construction and installation of such facilities.  Transmittal at 29, n.107. 

--- PAGE 108 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 52 - 
customers.229  For interconnection customers with interconnection requests at PILs, the 
results of the facilities analysis provided with the ICS report will serve as the 
interconnection facilities study.  For interconnection customers with interconnection 
requests at UPILs, the results of the facilities analysis will be incorporated into the 
interconnection facilities study, which will be completed after the Decision Point.   
 SPP states that once interconnection customers have received the results of the 
ICS, they have 20 business days to review the results of the ICS to determine whether to 
proceed past the Decision Point.230  SPP explains that interconnection customers can also 
make non-material modifications to their interconnection requests during this time.231   
If an interconnection customer elects to proceed past the Decision Point, they must 
provide:  (1) Financial Security Two, equal to 100% of their GRID-C charge less 
Financial Security One (GRID FS), plus 20% of the total DAUC allocated to the request 
(DAUC FS);  (2) evidence of site control for 75% of the generating facility tie-line; and 
(3) evidence of having satisfied at least one of 10 development milestones.232  SPP states 
that interconnection customers with interconnection requests at PILs are able to proceed 
to CPP GIA negotiations after the Decision Point unless a 30-day ICS “refresh” is 
required due to withdrawals or allowed modifications during the Decision Point.  
Interconnection requests at UPILs will be assessed to determine whether they require a 
restudy due to withdrawals of higher- or equally-queued interconnection requests or 
whether they can continue to the interconnection facilities study to determine the costs 
and timing of the interconnection facilities and network upgrades needed to 
 
229 As noted above, SPP explains that although interconnection customers 
connecting at PILs will generally not be responsible for network upgrade costs beyond 
their GRID-C charges, they are still responsible for the cost of interconnection facilities, 
substation upgrades at the point of interconnection, and any sub-100 kV system network 
upgrades identified in the ICS.  Transmittal at 68-69; Raheem Test. at 19; Deficiency 
Response at 17; SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV.3 (0.0.0), § IV.3.3.3 (Other 
Upgrades Not Planned for in the CPP-20 Transmission Portfolio). 
230 Transmittal at 30-31; SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § V.8 (0.0.0), § V.8.5.1 
(Decision Point).  SPP states that the Decision Point deadline can be extended if cost 
estimates change during the 20 business days.  Transmittal at 31, n.110. 
231 Transmittal at 31, n.111; Deficiency Response at 19-20; SPP, Proposed Tariff, 
attach. AY, § V.4 (Interconnection Request Evaluation Process) (0.0.0), § V.4.4.1 
(Modifications).  
232 Transmittal 31-32; SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § V.8 (0.0.0), § V.8.5.1 
(Decision Point); Deficiency Response at 19-20. 

--- PAGE 109 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 53 - 
accommodate their interconnection, before proceeding to GIA negotiations.233  SPP states 
that the interconnection facilities study will be completed within 60 days of the 
completion of any ICS restudy, with a cost estimate with a ± 20% level of accuracy, and 
will be followed by a 10-day review period and a final interconnection facilities study 
report issued within five days after the close of the review period.234  Interconnection 
customers with interconnection requests at UPILs will be directly assigned any additional 
system network upgrade costs based on the proportional impact of each interconnection 
request, which is the cost allocation method currently used in the existing DISIS 
process.235   
 SPP proposes that if an interconnection request is withdrawn after the Decision 
Point, the interconnection customer forfeits its GRID FS, to be credited to transmission 
customers.236  Further, SPP proposes that the interconnection customer will also forfeit 
any applicable DAUC FS and financial security in lieu of demonstrating site control to 
the extent that the interconnection customer’s withdrawal subjects equally-queued 
interconnection requests to material timing and cost impacts, unless both of the following 
conditions exist:  (1) the total allocated costs for the withdrawn interconnection request 
increased by 35% or more from final posted study results at the end of the Decision Point 
or restudy to the interconnection facilities study; and (2) the allocated cost per MW of 
requested capacity increased by $15,000 per MW or more from the end of the Decision 
Point to the interconnection facilities study.  SPP argues that these financial security 
forfeiture provisions are necessary to ensure that only commercially viable projects 
continue in the interconnection queue and to recover the GRID-C charge in case of an 
interconnection customer’s withdrawal after the Decision Point but before fulfillment of 
its GRID-C obligation.  SPP contends that these forfeiture requirements are necessary 
because transmission owners and load are factoring the outcomes of the Decision Point in 
the CPP-10 transmission assessment.  However, SPP states that, if the interconnection 
request is withdrawn before the effective date of the CPP GIA, the proposed GCP allows 
for a one-time transfer of the GRID FS from the withdrawn interconnection request to an 
 
233 SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § V.8 (0.0.0), § V.8.13 (Restudy of 
Interconnection Facilities Study).  SPP states that restudies will take no longer than  
60 days from the date of notice, with cost of restudy borne by the interconnection 
customer. Transmittal at 32. 
234 Transmittal at 33-34; SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § V.8 (0.0.0), 
§ V.8.11.c (Interconnection Facilities Study Procedures).  
235 SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § V.4 (0.0.0), § V.4.2.2 (Cost Allocation for 
Interconnection Facilities and Network Upgrades).  
236 Transmittal at 32-33, 73-74; SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § V.8 (0.0.0), 
§ V.8.14.c (Financial Security Refund Eligibility).  

--- PAGE 110 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 54 - 
active interconnection request in a lower-queued ICS cluster within the same 
deliverability area.237   
 SPP states that at the end of the Decision Point it will also evaluate any potential 
available capacity at PILs due to downward modifications or withdrawals, and to the 
extent any additional capacity is available, SPP may consider requests previously 
exceeding the PIL’s maximum associated MWs.238  SPP states that an interconnection 
customer with a capacity request that previously exceeded the planned capacity amounts 
may be eligible to receive its previously requested level of interconnection service at the 
PIL if:  (1) the interconnection customer did not reduce its capacity request because of 
the prior over-subscription; and (2) the full capacity amount previously requested by such 
interconnection customer, and any other customer satisfying the first criterion, is 
available as a result of the modified or withdrawn request.239  SPP states that these 
criteria are necessary to avoid the need for restudies, prevent gamesmanship, and ensure 
the ICS’s overall efficiency.  SPP will also determine whether the results of the modified 
or withdrawn requests alleviate the need for incremental DAUC. 
 Further, SPP proposes to assess withdrawal penalties to interconnection customers 
that withdraw after the start of the ICS whose withdrawal impacts the timing of any 
interconnection request in the same cluster, which SPP states is consistent with the 
requirements of Order No. 2023 and comparable to the withdrawal penalty provision  
in the Commission’s pro forma LGIP.240  The proposed withdrawal penalty will be  
equal to any unused portion of the study deposit plus two times the actual allocated  
cost of all studies performed for the interconnection customer’s interconnection request 
up until that point in the study process.  Additionally, consistent with the requirements 
of Order No. 2023, SPP proposes to implement study delay penalties should it fail to 
complete studies by the applicable deadlines, beginning in the third ICS cycle.241  
 
237 Transmittal at 32; SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § V.8 (0.0.0), § V.8.14.b 
(Financial Security Refund Eligibility).  
238 Transmittal at 31; SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § V.8 (0.0.0), § V.8.5.1 
(Decision Point).  See also supra P 59.  
239 Deficiency Response at 20.  
240 Transmittal at 74-75; SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § V.3 (0.0.0),  
§§ V.3.7.1 (Withdrawal Penalty), V.3.7.2 (Calculation of the Withdrawal Penalty).  
241 Transmittal at 36-37; Raheem Test. at 36 (citing Order No. 2023, 184 FERC  
¶ 61,054 at PP 962-964); SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § V.3 (0.0.0), § V.3.9(6) 
(Penalties for Failure to Meet Study Deadlines).   

--- PAGE 111 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 55 - 
 SPP states that the CPP GIA tender, negotiation, execution, and filing process is 
substantially similar to the current process in the DISIS.242  Further, SPP proposes to 
include, as attachments to the GCP, pro forma study agreements, pro forma CPP GIAs, 
and other pro forma agreements that replicate most of the terms and conditions of these 
existing pro forma agreements in Attachment V.243  SPP explains that the pro forma CPP 
GIAs also determine when payment of the GRID-C components will be due.244  
Interconnection customers will make monthly ERIS GRID-C payments beginning 30 
days after the effective date of their CPP GIA and terminating 30 days prior to the 
expected commercial operation date of their generating facilities.  Similarly, the NRIS 
GRID-C charge will be collected as monthly payments, but NRIS GRID-C payments will 
begin no later than the expected commercial operation date and will be paid over a 
minimum of 12 months.  SPP explains that the reason for the later payment for the NRIS 
GRID-C is because an interconnection customer’s generating facility may become a 
designated resource, in which case its NRIS GRID-C is eligible to be base plan funded  
subject to Attachment J, section III.B.  Additionally, SPP proposes to include, as an 
attachment, an ILTCR compensation agreement for CPP interconnection customers.245  
 In addition, SPP explains that CPP interconnection requests will be subject to the 
same affected system study requirements as under the existing GIP, including being 
assessed for cost responsibilities under the JTIQ, if applicable.246  SPP also proposes to 
 
242 Transmittal at 34; see SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § V.11 (Generator 
Interconnection Agreement) (0.0.0), § V.11.1 (Tender) (0.0.0).   
243 Transmittal at 101-102; SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, app. 3 (Consolidated 
Planning Process Generator Interconnection Study Agreement) (0.0.0); id., app. 6 (CPP 
Generator Interconnection Agreement (CPP GIA)) (0.0.0); id. app. 12 (Consent to 
Assignment of CPP GIA)) (0.0.0); id., app. 13 (CPP Generator Interconnection 
Agreement (For use when Western-UGP is a Party to the CPP GIA, as the Transmission 
Owner)) (0.0.0).  SPP similarly proposes to incorporate appendices regarding procedures 
for wind generating plants and certification codes and standards.  SPP, Proposed Tariff, 
attach. AY, app. 7 (Interconnection Procedures for Wind Generating Plant) (0.0.0);  
id., app. 9 (Certification Codes and Standards) (0.0.0). 
244 Transmittal at 34, 87-88; SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV.3 (0.0.0),  
§ IV.3.3.5 (Term). 
245 Transmittal at 101; SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, app. 4 (Compensation 
Agreement for Interconnection Customer with CPP Generator Interconnection 
Agreement) (0.0.0).  
246 Transmittal at 26.  The JTIQ framework enables Midcontinent Independent 
System Operator, Inc. (MISO) and SPP to develop a portfolio of “backbone network 
 

--- PAGE 112 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 56 - 
include pro forma affected system study agreements and pro forma affected system 
facilities construction agreements for use when SPP is acting as the affected system 
operator, which largely replicate the pro forma affected system study agreements and  
pro forma affected system construction agreements contained in the GIP.247  
 SPP contends that the proposed GCP is just and reasonable and consistent with  
the purposes of Order Nos. 2003 and 2023.248  SPP argues that while the GCP deviates 
from some of the requirements of Order No. 2023, it accomplishes the purposes of Order 
No. 2023 “to ensure that interconnection customers are able to interconnect to the 
transmission system in a reliable, efficient, transparent, and timely manner.”249  SPP 
argues that while the proposed ICS timeline contains variations from the Commission’s 
pro forma LGIP, the proposed ICS timelines provide more time for interconnection 
customers to submit requests while still providing a single annual open window.250  
Additionally, SPP states that the stricter commercial readiness and financial security 
requirements in the proposed GCP reduce the submission of commercially non-viable 
interconnection requests and discourage late-stage withdrawals.251  Lastly, SPP states 
 that the withdrawal penalty structure helps mitigate issues caused by speculative 
interconnection requests, including study delays and the harm caused by withdrawals 
from the interconnection queue at various stages of the study process.252  SPP argues  
that by combining and streamlining the regional transmission planning and generator 
 
upgrades” in both MISO and SPP to facilitate the interconnection of large amounts of 
generation near the seam between the RTOs to serve load in both regions.  See JTIQ I, 
189 FERC ¶ 61,108 at P 8. 
247 SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, app. 1 (Two-Party Affected System Study 
Agreement) (0.0.0); id., app. 2 (Multi-Party Affected System Study Agreement) (0.0.0); 
id., app. 17 (Affected System Facilities Construction Agreement) (0.0.0); id., app. 18 
(Multi-Party Affected System Facilities Construction Agreement) (0.0.0). 
248 Transmittal at 63.  
249 Id. at 67 (citing Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054 at P 37).   
250 Id. at 70. 
251 Id. at 71-72.  
252 Id. at 75. 

--- PAGE 113 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 57 - 
interconnection processes, the CPP addresses the Commission’s concerns regarding 
interconnection queue backlogs and study delays identified in Order No. 2023.253   
 In its Deficiency Response, SPP agrees to revise its Tariff to correct several 
drafting errors in the proposed GCP, if directed by the Commission.  First, SPP states  
that proposed language regarding the allocation of system network upgrade costs to 
interconnection customers at UPILs in Attachment AY, section V.4.2.2(3)(c) should use 
the plural “Unplanned Interconnection Locations,” instead of “the Unplanned 
Interconnection Location.”254  SPP explains that this revision would reflect that, 
consistent with the cost allocation under SPP’s current GIP, interconnection customers at 
different UPILs in the same cluster cost allocation assessment group may be assessed a 
portion of the costs of system network upgrades.  
 Second, SPP states that, in proposed Attachment AY, section V.8.5.1, it 
inadvertently failed to include language providing that, to proceed past the Decision 
Point, an interconnection customer at a PIL is expected to provide SPP with a written 
indication of the interconnection customer’s intent to withdraw or proceed in the ICS.255 
 Third, SPP states that proposed Attachment AY, section V.8.5.1 outlining the 
DAUC FS should be revised to state that the DAUC FS is calculated as “Twenty percent 
(20%) of the total Directly Assigned Upgrade Costs allocated to the Interconnection 
Request in accordance with Section V.4.2.2 of this Attachment AY” and remove the 
subsequent clause “less the amount of Financial Security One that was previously 
provided to enter the ICS.”256   
 Finally, SPP states that proposed Attachment AY, section V.8.14(c), which lists 
the material timing impacts or increased costs to equally-queued interconnection 
customers that could trigger forfeiture of the DAUC FS and financial security in lieu of 
demonstrating site control by a withdrawing CPP interconnection customer, should not 
include the capitalized terms “Affected Systems Study” or “Affected System Network 
Upgrade.”257  SPP explains this provision should instead use non-capitalized terms, as 
this provision is intended to account for any material timing impacts or increased costs 
related to SPP interconnection customers’ affected system studies conducted by 
 
253 Id. at 67 (citing Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054 at P 27).  
254 Deficiency Response at 16-17. 
255 Id. at 18-19.  
256 Id. at 19-20. 
257 Id. at 22-23. 

--- PAGE 114 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 58 - 
neighboring transmission providers.  Further, SPP states that this proposed language on 
material timing and cost impacts should apply to lower-queued, as well as equally-
queued, interconnection requests consistent with Order No. 2023.  While SPP states that 
it does not anticipate that impacts to lower-queued interconnection customers will be 
relevant given the proposed single Decision Point framework of the GCP, SPP states that 
it will revise this provision on compliance if directed by the Commission. 
b. 
Comments and Protests 
 Commenters generally support SPP’s proposed GCP.  Advanced Energy United, 
American Clean Power Association, ITC Great Plains, PIOs, and SPP TO Group contend 
that the proposed GCP provides interconnection customers with greater upfront cost 
certainty and transparency and allows for a faster interconnection process.258  PIOs argue 
that the current DISIS framework, in contrast, has imbedded uncertainty and financial 
risk that incentivizes developers to submit speculative interconnection requests to search 
for the most cost-effective interconnection locations, thereby increasing the volume of the 
interconnection requests, leading to cycles of withdrawals and repeated restudies and 
delays.259 
 ITC Great Plains and PIOs assert that SPP’s CPP proposal increases transparency 
and certainty through use of established PILs that send clear signals to interconnection 
customers regarding optimal interconnection locations.260  In addition, Advanced Energy 
United, American Clean Power Association, PIOs, and SPP TO Group contend that 
adoption of the CPP’s proposed cost allocation method allows generation developers to 
more effectively plan by providing greater upfront transparency regarding network 
upgrade costs at prospective sites for new generation.261  American Clean Power 
Association and PIOs point specifically to the GRID-C mechanism as a valuable method 
for providing greater upfront cost certainty and transparency for generation developers 
and discouraging speculative requests.262   
 
258 Advanced Energy United Comments at 12-13; American Clean Power 
Association Comments at 6; ITC Great Plains Comments at 5; PIOs Comments at 4; SPP 
TO Group Comments at 14. 
259 PIOs Comments at 3.  
260 ITC Great Plains Comments at 5; PIOs Comments at 5. 
261 Advanced Energy United Comments at 12-13; American Clean Power 
Association Comments at 5-6; PIOs Comments at 6; SPP TO Group Comments at 14.  
262 American Clean Power Association Comments at 6; PIOs Comments at 6. 

--- PAGE 115 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 59 - 
 Advanced Energy United and American Clean Power Association contend that the 
CPP allows interconnection customers to better anticipate full costs so that they can move 
forward in the interconnection process with less risk of unexpected network upgrade 
costs.263  SPP TO Group asserts that greater transparency will facilitate a speedier 
interconnection process that enables developers to bring their interconnection requests 
online more quickly.264  Advanced Energy United and PIOs aver that a better anticipation 
of full costs and timelines for the interconnection process will also reduce the need for 
restudies and allows for a more efficient interconnection process.265   
 PIOs and SPP TO Group additionally contend that the reduced number of 
interconnection requests in SPP will reduce administrative challenges.266  SPP TO Group 
also asserts that the CPP will reduce administrative overhead costs for generation 
developers associated with pursuing permitting and acquisition activities at numerous 
prospective sites.267   
 Advanced Energy United and American Clean Power Association aver that the 
CPP process avoids upgrade costs becoming contingent on any single interconnection 
request, which Advanced Energy United argues leads to a high chance of cascading 
restudies if that interconnection request withdraws.268  Similarly, PIOs assert that upfront 
cost certainty under the CPP will prevent interconnection customers from holding onto 
financially risky projects until late stages because it will remove any benefit 
interconnection customers might gain by waiting on the behavior of other interconnection 
customers with requests that could change total upgrade costs assigned to a given 
interconnection customer.269  PIOs contend that, under the CPP proposal, one 
interconnection customer’s actions do not affect the costs assigned to another, and thus 
there is no advantage to be gamed or gained by late withdrawal.    
 
263 Advanced Energy United Comments at 12; American Clear Power Association 
Comments at 6.  
264 SPP TO Group Comments at 14.  
265 Advanced Energy United Comments at 12; PIOs Comments at 4.  
266 PIOs Comments at 6; SPP TO Group Comments at 14.  
267 SPP TO Group Comments at 14.  
268 Advanced Energy United Comments at 12-13; American Clean Power 
Association Comments at 6.  
269 PIOs Comments at 7 (citing Raheem Test. at 21-22).  

--- PAGE 116 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 60 - 
 Advanced Energy United, ITC Great Plains, and PIOs contend that, in addition to 
greater upfront cost certainty, a single Decision Point with aligned financial requirements 
gives interconnection customers a clearly defined point to commit to an interconnection 
location or withdraw, reducing restudies and delay.270  PIOs assert that the multiple 
decision points in the current DISIS process allow for cycles of withdrawals, restudies, 
and delays, impeding the timely integration of new resources.271  Advanced Energy 
United argues that a single cluster with a single Decision Point provides for a simplified 
and consistent interconnection queue.272   
 Advanced Energy United, American Clean Power Association, and PIOs also 
contend that the CPP will streamline the administrative study process and expedite the 
interconnection study timeline from the current expected 12-18 months to approximately 
180 days.273  American Clean Power Association argues that this means that new 
generating facilities can be built sooner, improving resource adequacy and putting 
downward pressure on energy prices by getting low-cost generation online faster.274  
PIOs assert that this consolidation will reduce administrative burdens, resulting in a 
faster, more efficient study process that in turn will accelerate the actual integration of 
new resources onto the SPP transmission system.275   
 Several commenters, including SPP TO Group, Advanced Energy United, and 
PIOs, contend that SPP’s revisions to its generator interconnection process under the CPP 
are consistent with the Commission’s requirements in Order No. 2023.276  SPP TO Group 
argues that SPP’s proposed withdrawal penalty under the CPP, for example, aligns with 
 
270 Advanced Energy United Comments at 12-13; ITC Great Plains Comments  
at 5; PIOs Comments at 7.  
271 PIOs Comments at 5. 
272 Advanced Energy United Comments at 12-13.  
273 Advanced Energy United Comments at 13; American Clear Power Association 
Comments at 4-5; PIOs Comments at 7.   
274 American Clean Power Association Comments at 4-5.  
275 PIOs Comments at 7.  
276 Advanced Energy United Comments at 11; PIOs Comments at 18; SPP TO 
Group Comments at 9.  

--- PAGE 117 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 61 - 
the goals of Order No. 2023 to disincentivize speculative generation and does not 
meaningfully deviate from the requirements under Order No. 2023.277   
 PIOs note that while changes made to the DISIS process in the CPP will change 
certain elements of the existing DISIS process approved under the Order No. 2023 
compliance filings, those changes are explicitly designed to further the Commission’s 
objectives in Order No. 2023 to streamline the interconnection study process, reduce 
timelines and implement study delay penalties, increase financial commitments and 
commercial readiness requirements, evaluate alternative transmission technologies, and 
provide developers with upfront cost certainty to reduce speculative requests, in turn 
reducing withdrawal and restudies.278  PIOs contend that the CPP interconnection process 
is superior to the minimum requirements established in Order No. 2023.  
 Advanced Energy United contends that the Commission should accept the CPP 
under the independent entity variation standard from the Commission’s pro forma 
LGIP.279  Advanced Energy United asserts that SPP’s proposed two-stage financial 
security framework, which ties financial security amounts to the GRID-C charge plus any 
DAUC, satisfies the independent entity variation standard because it reduces speculative 
requests and late-stage withdrawals.  Advanced Energy United states that the enhanced 
financial security requirements are just and reasonable because they balance increased 
upfront financial commitment with increased upfront cost certainty and transparency, 
better ensuring that only viable projects enter the queue, and are aligned with the intent  
in Order No. 2023 to offer interconnection customers more certainty and better access  
to information to prevent delays.280  Additionally, Advanced Energy United notes that, 
should SPP fail to meet study timelines, it must pay penalties consistent with Order  
No. 2023.281  Advanced Energy United contends that these timelines and non-compliance 
penalties will incentivize timely completion, are just and reasonable, and meet the 
Commission’s objectives in Order No. 2023 by ensuring that interconnection customers 
 
277 SPP TO Group Comments at 9 (citing SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § V.3 
(0.0.0), § V.3.7.1 (Withdrawal Penalty); Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054 at P 781). 
278 PIOs Comments at 16-18. 
279 Advanced Energy United Comments at 11 (citing Order No. 2023, 184 FERC  
¶ 61,054). 
280 Id. at 12 (citing Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054 at P 5).  
281 Id. at 13 (citing Transmittal at 36).  

--- PAGE 118 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 62 - 
are able to interconnection to the transmission system in a reliable, efficient, transparent, 
and timely manner.282  
 Further, Advanced Energy United asserts that the CPP proposal upholds the 
Commission’s open-access principles and is not unduly discriminatory or preferential 
because it establishes a transparent and uniform framework that applies equally to all 
interconnection customers, regardless of technology type, ownership structure, or 
business model.283  
 Conversely, Savion argues that SPP’s proposed requirement that interconnection 
customers who request to interconnect at UPILs provide the GRID FS payment before 
receiving their interconnection facilities study results is unjust and unreasonable and 
unduly discriminatory and preferential.284  Savion explains that interconnection 
customers with interconnection requests at PILs receive their final interconnection 
facilities study results as part of the facilities analysis, before the close of the Decision 
Point and thus before submission of the GRID FS, whereas interconnection customers 
with interconnection requests at UPILs will not receive their final interconnection 
facilities study results until after the Decision Point and thus after submission of the 
GRID FS.  Savion asserts that this aspect of SPP’s proposed GCP will result in unduly 
discriminatory treatment of interconnection customers requesting to interconnect at a 
UPIL, as compared to an interconnection customer requesting to interconnect at a PIL.  
Savion further asserts that interconnection customers with interconnection requests at 
PILs that are directly assigned costs of sub-100 kV network upgrades will similarly not 
know their full interconnection costs until receiving the results of an interconnection 
facilities study after the Decision Point, creating an unjust and unreasonable process that 
discriminates between interconnection customers with interconnection requests at 
PILs.285  Savion proposes options for revising the CPP proposal to address this issue, 
including:  (1) allowing interconnection customers with interconnection requests at 
UPILs to post GRID FS within 20 days after receipt of their interconnection facilities 
study results;  
(2) allowing interconnection customers with interconnection requests at UPILs to 
withdraw and receive a full refund of their GRID FS payment if their total cost allocation 
increases 20% or more above their allocated amount prior to the study; or (3) requiring 
interconnection customers with interconnection requests at both PILs and UPILs to post 
 
282 Id.  
283 Id. at 13-14 (citing Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054 at P 177).  
284 Savion December 8 Protest at 6-7; Savion January 26 Protest at 4-5. 
285 Savion January 26 Protest at 11. 

--- PAGE 119 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 63 - 
their GRID FS after all interconnection customers have received their interconnection 
facilities study results.286 
 Savion also contends that the proposed generator tie-line site control requirements 
in the GCP will incentivize interconnection customers to prevent other interconnection 
customers from accessing PILs.  Specifically, Savion asserts that SPP’s proposed 
requirement that interconnection customers must demonstrate 75% site control for the 
generating facility’s tie-line at the Decision Point will create a “perverse incentive” for 
generation developers to secure all the land around each PIL to prevent other developers 
from also interconnecting at the PIL.287  Savion asserts that competition for PIL access 
will become unduly discriminatory or preferential if a single developer buys, leases, or 
secures easements or other forms of rights-of-way for all the land around a PIL to close 
out competing generation developers.  Savion suggests that the Commission thus require 
that SPP provide periodic reporting on site control, land access, and PIL access. 
 Savion further contends that certain clarifications provided by SPP do not accord 
with proposed Tariff provisions.288  First, Savion argues that SPP’s statement that, under 
the CPP proposal, interconnection customers at PILs may be required to pay for system 
network upgrades at an operating voltage of 100 kV or less conflicts with proposed 
language in Attachment AY, section V.4.2.2.1 stating that “[n]o DAUC for any System 
Network Upgrades will be assessed if the Interconnection Customer interconnects its 
Generating Facility at a [PIL] where the available capacity has not been exceeded.”289  
Further, Savion asserts that SPP has not explained why an interconnection customer at a 
PIL would need to provide a written indication of intent to bypass the interconnection 
facilities study given that proposed Attachment AY, section V.4.2.2.1 states that an 
interconnection customer at a PIL cannot be assessed DAUC for system network 
upgrades.290  Savion also argues that the proposed Tariff does not address what would 
happen if the facilities analysis results in the need for network upgrades with a nominal 
operating voltage of 100 kV or less for an interconnection customer with an 
interconnection request at a PIL, which would then need to be studied in an 
interconnection facilities study subsequent to the Decision Point.   
 
286 Savion December 8 Protest at 8. 
287 Id. at 11-12. 
288 Savion January 26 Protest at 7-10 (citing Deficiency Response at 17-19). 
289 Id. at 8-9 (citing Deficiency Response at 17-19; SPP, Proposed Tariff,  
attach AY, § V.4 (0.0.0), § V.4.2.2.1 (GRID Contribution)). 
290 Id. at 9. 

--- PAGE 120 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 64 - 
 Several commenters request that the Commission require SPP to provide reporting 
on implementation of the interconnection process.291  SPP TO Group suggests that SPP 
should provide periodic reports on transfers of GRID FS to active interconnection 
requests in subsequent ICS clusters, which the CPP proposal allows for when an 
interconnection customer withdraws between the Decision Point and the GIA effective 
date.292  SPP TO Group asserts that periodic information reports on the use of such 
transfers would prevent gaming and discourage disruptive withdrawals.  Similarly, 
Advanced Energy United states that the Commission may wish to consider requiring 
updates on CPP implementation to create a public record of its performance by 
documenting success metrics, such as time to interconnection, queue-length reductions, 
cost savings, withdrawal rates, and frequency of restudies.  Advanced Energy United 
argues that any measures reported could provide a public record for other regions to 
follow to improve interconnection queues and fortify the transmission system even if  
the Commission does little with the reported information.293 
c. 
Answers 
 In response to SPP TO Group’s request for reporting on GRID FS transfers, SPP 
notes that SPP TO Group does not explain how allowing an interconnection customer to 
transfer its GRID FS to a future interconnection request, allowed under the proposed 
GCP, would constitute “gaming” or how periodic informational reports on the use of such 
transfers would prevent such gaming without exposing the confidential information of 
interconnection customers taking advantage of this accommodation.294 
 In response to Savion’s concerns regarding financial security requirements, SPP 
argues that its proposed financial security and forfeiture requirements reduce speculative 
interconnection requests and late-stage withdrawals and ensure that the GRID-C funding 
will materialize, which is fundamental to the CPP design.295  SPP explains that it is 
necessary for all interconnection customers to commit to pay the GRID-C charge through 
the non-refundable GRID FS at the Decision Point in order for SPP to conduct the CPP-
10 transmission assessment with any level of certainty.  SPP contends that the proposed 
CPP financial security and forfeiture requirements are not unduly discriminatory or 
 
291 Advanced Energy United Comments at 15-16; SPP TO Group Comments  
at 14-15. 
292 SPP TO Group Comments at 14-15.  
293 Advanced Energy United Comments at 15-16. 
294 SPP December 9 Answer at 11-12 (citing SPP TO Group Comments at 15).  
295 SPP December 18 Answer at 7-9. 

--- PAGE 121 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 65 - 
preferential because interconnection customers that elect to interconnect at UPILs are  
not similarly situated to those that elect to interconnect at PILs.  SPP contends that 
interconnection customers that elect to interconnect at UPILs accept the potential risks of 
greater cost uncertainty.  SPP also asserts that an interconnection customer seeking to 
interconnect at a PIL is electing to interconnect at a location where existing or planned 
transmission capacity will be sufficient to accommodate new generation and, as a result, 
it generally will not be responsible for additional network upgrade costs beyond its 
GRID-C because the transmission system will be able to accommodate its 
interconnection at that location with existing and planned transmission capacity.296  SPP 
thus argues that such interconnection customer will cause less transmission expansion 
costs than an interconnection customer that elects to interconnect at a location where 
there may not be sufficient transmission capacity to accommodate the interconnection 
and may require additional upgrades. 
 SPP TO Group similarly disagrees with Savion and argues that it is not unduly 
discriminatory to provide interconnection customers with interconnection requests at 
PILs with greater cost certainty relative to interconnection customers with 
interconnection requests at UPILs because the latter voluntarily choose to interconnect  
at locations that have not been previously studied and, therefore, bear the burden of their 
interconnection in the form of additional studies and less upfront cost certainty.297  
Further, SPP TO Group argues that, even though total DAUC for interconnection 
customers with interconnection requests at UPILs are not “absolutely certain” at the time 
of GRID FS payment, the facilities analysis provides a general idea of DAUC prior to the 
Decision Point.298  SPP TO Group also highlights that SPP has built flexibility into the 
CPP proposal for interconnection customers with interconnection requests at UPILs by 
allowing such interconnection customers the one-time opportunity to transfer their  
GRID FS for their withdrawn requests to an active interconnection request under certain 
circumstances.299  SPP TO Group further contends that it is necessary for interconnection 
customers with interconnection requests at UPILs to pay the GRID FS prior to the  
end of the Decision Point to confirm their commitment to interconnect, lest SPP risk 
incentivizing speculative interconnection requests, thereby undermining one of the 
central purposes of the CPP.300  Finally, SPP TO Group asserts that the Commission 
 
296 Id. at 11-12. 
297 SPP TO Group December 19 Answer at 11-12 (citing Transmittal at 25; SPP, 
Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV.1.4). 
298 SPP TO Group December 19 Answer at 8. 
299 Id. at 9-11 (citing Transmittal at 32, 74). 
300 SPP TO Group December 19 Answer at 12 (citing Transmittal at 13). 

--- PAGE 122 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 66 - 
should reject Savion’s alternative proposals, which SPP TO Group contends would 
constitute a major modification to the CPP.301   
 Further, SPP argues that Savion’s concerns regarding site control requirements are 
speculative and notes that its existing GIP contains a requirement for interconnection 
customers to demonstrate 75% site control for the generating facility tie-line at the 
Decision Point.302  SPP asserts that Savion does not explain why use of PILs would 
create a “perverse incentive” regarding land acquisition and site control, how periodic 
reporting would prevent such incentives, or why reporting potentially confidential 
information would be appropriate.  SPP TO Group similarly states that Savion’s request 
is unnecessary and burdensome.303 
 In addition, SPP rebuts Savion’s arguments that the proposed Tariff provisions 
conflict with SPP’s explanation regarding the assignment of DAUC to interconnection 
customers at PILs for network upgrades with a nominal voltage less than or equal to 100 
kV.304  SPP states that, when read together, proposed sections IV.3.3 and V.4.2.2.1 of 
Attachment AY make clear that interconnection customers with interconnection requests 
at PILs will generally not be responsible for DAUC associated with system network 
upgrades except for those that are not included in the calculation of the GRID-C rate (i.e., 
upgrades operating at 100 kV and below).305  In addition, SPP clarifies that for 
interconnection customers connecting at PILs, network upgrades operating at or below 
100 kV will be identified during the facilities analysis, which occurs before the Decision 
Point, and such customers will not be subject to an interconnection facilities study.306  
SPP argues that this addresses Savion’s concern that interconnection customers with 
 
301 Id. at 12-14. 
302  SPP December 18 Answer at 15-16 (citing SPP, Tariff, attach. V, § 8 (26.0.0), 
§§ 8.5.1 (Decision Point One), 8.5.2 (Decision Point Two)). 
303 SPP TO Group December 19 Answer at 2.  
304 SPP January 29 Answer at 3-7 (citing Savion January 26 Protest at 7-9). 
305 Id. at 4-5 (citing SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV.3 (0.0.0), §§ IV.3.3 
(Grid Contribution Structure), IV.3.3.1 (Region-Wide GRID Rate Components), IV.3.3.2 
(Subregional GRID Rate Components), and IV.3.3.3 (Other Upgrades Not Planned for in 
the CPP-20 Transmission Portfolio)). 
306 SPP January 29 Answer at 6.  

--- PAGE 123 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 67 - 
interconnection requests at PILs that are directly assigned the cost of network upgrades at 
100 kV or below will be subject to discriminatory treatment.307  
 Finally, SPP argues that the Commission should deny commenters’ requests for 
additional reporting requirements because such requirements are unnecessary, 
duplicative, and burdensome.308  SPP explains that, pursuant to its proposed Tariff, 
reporting on generator interconnection will include, among other things:  (1) maintenance 
of quarterly updates and statistics related to processing of interconnection studies on its 
website, including ICS, ICS restudy, and interconnection facilities studies processing 
times; (2) statistics on queue withdrawal; and (3) statistics on any penalties assessed to 
SPP for failure to meet study deadlines.309 
d. 
Commission Determination 
 As noted above, the Commission applies an independent entity variation standard 
to evaluate RTO/ISO proposals for deviations from the Commission’s pro forma 
generator interconnection procedures and pro forma interconnection agreements.  Under 
the independent entity variation standard, SPP must demonstrate that its proposed 
variations are just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or preferential and 
accomplish the purposes of Order No. 2003 and the Commission’s subsequent final rules 
on generator interconnection, including, as relevant here, Order No. 2023.310  As 
 
307 Id. at 7.  
308 SPP December 9 Answer at 6. 
309 Id. at 9-10 (citing SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, §  V.3 (0.0.0), §§ V.3.5 
(OASIS Posting), V.3.5.2 (Requirement to Post Interconnection Study Metrics), V.3.5.2.1 
(ICS Process Time), V.3.5.2.2 (ICS Restudies Processing Time), V.3.5.2.3 
(Interconnection Facilities Studies Processing Time), V.3.5.2.4 (Interconnection Service 
Requests Withdrawn from Interconnection Queue), V.3.9 (Penalties for Failure to Meet 
Study Deadlines)).  
310 See, e.g., Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 183 FERC ¶ 61,215, at P 30 (2023).  SPP 
proposes to maintain provisions for surplus interconnection service and provisional 
(termed “interim”) interconnection service in its GIP, as required by Order No. 845.  See 
Reform of Generator Interconnection Procs. & Agreements, Order No. 845, 163 FERC 
¶ 61,043, at PP 438, 477 (2018), order on reh’g, Order No. 845-A, 166 FERC ¶ 61,137, 
order on reh’g, Order No. 845-B, 168 FERC ¶ 61,092 (2019).  See also supra P 99, 
n.224.  See also SPP Tariff, attach. V, § 3 (27.0.0), § 3.3 (Utilization of Surplus 
Interconnection Service), app. 15 (Surplus Interconnection Service Impact Study 
Agreement), app. 16 (Surplus Interconnection Service Facilities Study Agreement);  
id. § 11A (14.0.0) (Interim Generator Interconnection Agreement (Interim GIA)), 
 
 

--- PAGE 124 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 68 - 
discussed further below, we find that SPP’s proposed GCP satisfies the independent 
entity variation standard because it is just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory 
or preferential and accomplishes the purposes of Order Nos. 2003 and 2023 by helping to 
ensure that interconnection customers are able to interconnect to the transmission system 
in a reliable, efficient, transparent, and timely manner.311  We specifically address below 
two significant aspects of SPP’s proposed GCP that deviate from the Commission’s  
pro forma LGIP and SPP’s existing GIP. 
 First, SPP’s proposed GCP deviates in part from the interconnection study  
timing requirements set forth in Order No. 2023 and reduces the overall timing of the 
interconnection process compared to its existing DISIS process by:  (1) condensing its 
queue cluster window from 11 months to 2 months; (2) providing a 60-day ICS review 
period to resolve any deficiencies in interconnection requests; (3) condensing its  
two-phased DISIS cluster study into a single, 180-day ICS study period with a single 
Decision Point; (4) using the results of the facilities analysis contained in the ICS study 
report as the interconnection facilities study results for interconnection customers with 
interconnection requests at PILs and shortening the interconnection facilities study for 
interconnection customers with interconnection requests at UPILs to 60 days; and  
(5) updating, or “refreshing,” the ICS study report for interconnection customers with 
interconnection requests at PILs as well as performing up to one ICS restudy for 
interconnection customers with interconnection requests at UPILs, if necessary.   
These provisions, in combination with increased financial security requirements and 
withdrawal penalties, discussed further below, will create a more streamlined and 
efficient interconnection study process with reduced potential for restudies and attendant 
delays.  Accordingly, we find that SPP’s interconnection study timelines under the CPP 
accomplish the purposes of Order No. 2023 to ensure an efficient and timely 
interconnection process.   
 Second, SPP’s proposed financial security requirements, based on the 
interconnection customer’s GRID-C charge and DAUC, are higher and more stringent 
than those required in Order No. 2023, as well as the financial security requirements the 
 
 
app. 5 (Interim Availability Interconnection System Impact Study Agreement), app. 8 
(Interim Generator Interconnection Agreement).  
311 See Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103 at PP 26, 827; Order No. 2023,  
184 FERC ¶ 61,054 at P 1.  We note that many of SPP’s proposed deviations from the 
requirements of Order Nos. 2023 and 2023-A in the GCP mirror existing language in 
SPP’s GIP for which SPP was previously granted an independent entity variation in its 
Order No. 2023 compliance proceeding. 

--- PAGE 125 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 69 - 
Commission accepted in SPP’s Order No. 2023 compliance proceeding.312  However, as 
SPP explains, under the CPP framework, interconnection customers are provided greater 
upfront cost certainty before entering the ICS.  Given this additional certainty, we find 
that it is just and reasonable to require interconnection customers to provide greater 
financial security.  At the same time, we find that the higher financial security 
requirements will reduce speculative interconnection requests and help to ensure that 
only commercially viable interconnection requests enter the interconnection queue.  
Further, we find that SPP’s proposal to make the GRID FS non-refundable for all 
interconnection customers after the Decision Point is just and reasonable and not unduly 
discriminatory or preferential because SPP incorporates information about both the 
interconnection customers and the GRID-C contribution amounts from the Decision Point 
into the transmission assessment under the CPP-10.  Allowing interconnection customers 
to proceed past the Decision Point without committing to the non-refundable GRID FS 
would thus undermine SPP’s ability to streamline and integrate regional transmission 
planning and generator interconnection processes in the CPP-10.  Therefore, we find that 
these provisions accomplish the purposes of Order No. 2023 by deterring speculative 
interconnection requests and late-stage withdrawals.  Similarly, we find that SPP’s 
proposed inclusion of a withdrawal penalty under the CPP will further disincentivize late-
stage withdrawals.313   
 We disagree with Savion that the proposed financial security requirements are 
unduly discriminatory toward interconnection customers that request to interconnect at 
UPILs compared to those at PILs.  Rather, we believe SPP has sufficiently explained that, 
for the CPP to be effective, it is necessary for all interconnection customers – both those 
seeking to interconnect at PILs and those seeking to interconnect at UPILs – to provide 
the GRID FS at the Decision Point so that it can conduct the CPP-10 transmission 
assessment with sufficient certainty.  Moreover, interconnection customers seeking to 
interconnect at UPILs will require additional study after the Decision Point as a result of 
their choice to seek to interconnect at locations that SPP has not studied through its CPP.  
By electing to interconnect at a UPIL rather than at a PIL, interconnection customers 
knowingly and voluntarily forego greater cost certainty in exchange for greater flexibility 
in their point of interconnection or requested maximum interconnection capacity.  As 
such, we find that interconnection customers seeking to interconnect at UPILs are not 
 
312 Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054 at PP 691-693; see also pro forma LGIP, 
§§ 1, 3.4.2, 7.5, 8.1, 11.3.; see also Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 191 FERC ¶ 61,230, at P 119 
(2025); see also SPP, Tariff, attach. V, § 8 (19.0.2), §§ 8.2 (Execution of Generator 
Interconnection Study Agreement), 8.5.1 (Decision Point One), 8.5.2 (Decision Point 
Two).  
313 Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054 at P 781; see also pro forma LGIP  
§ 3.7.1.  

--- PAGE 126 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 70 - 
similarly situated to those seeking to interconnect at PILs, and therefore that requiring 
interconnection customers at UPILs to provide the GRID FS at the Decision Point despite 
having comparatively less certainty about their ultimate cost responsibility than 
interconnection customers at PILs is not unduly discriminatory. 
 We also disagree with Savion that SPP’s proposed financial security requirements 
unduly discriminate against those interconnection customers with interconnection 
requests at PILs that are assigned DAUC for interconnection-related network upgrades at 
a nominal operating voltage of 100 kV or below.  We find this argument unpersuasive 
because, as SPP states, Savion misunderstands SPP’s proposal.  As SPP explains, for 
interconnection customers interconnecting at PILs, any necessary interconnection-related 
network upgrades at a nominal operating voltage of 100 kV or below will be identified 
during the facilities analysis, prior to the Decision Point, and will not be subject to an 
additional interconnection facilities study.314  Therefore, these interconnection customers 
will not be treated any differently than interconnection customers interconnecting at PILs 
whose interconnection requests do not require any necessary interconnection-related 
network upgrades at a nominal operating voltage of 100 kV or below and, similarly,  
will not be subject to an additional interconnection facilities study. 
 However, we agree with Savion that proposed Attachment AY, section V.4.2.2.1 
does not reflect that, under the CPP, interconnection customers at PILs may be assigned 
DAUC for needed network upgrades with a nominal operating voltage of 100 kV or 
below.315  Despite SPP’s contention that proposed Attachment AY, sections V.4.2.2.1 
and IV.3,316 when read together, reflect that interconnection customers with 
interconnection requests at PILs may be assigned DAUC for needed network upgrades 
with a nominal operating voltage of 100 kV or below,317 we find that the proposed 
language in section V.4.2.2.1 may create confusion because it explicitly states that “[n]o 
DAUC for any System Network Upgrades will be assessed if the Interconnection 
Customer interconnects its generating facility at a [PIL] where the available capacity has 
not been exceeded.”  Therefore, we direct SPP to submit, within 30 days of the date of 
 
314 SPP January 29 Answer at 5-7. 
315 Savion January 26 Protest at 7-9. 
316 SPP January 29 Answer at 3-4.  Proposed Attachment AY, section IV.3.3.3 
provides that network upgrades driven solely by interconnection customer needs may be 
subject to direct assignment of costs, including “Interconnection Facilities and Network 
Upgrades with a nominal operating voltage level less than or equal to 100 kV.”  SPP, 
Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV.3 (0.0.0), § IV.3.3.3 (Other Upgrades Not Planned for 
in the CPP-20 Transmission Portfolio).  
317 SPP January 29 Answer at 4. 

--- PAGE 127 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 71 - 
this order, a further compliance filing to revise Attachment AY, section V.4.2.2.1 of its 
Tariff to clarify that interconnection customers with interconnection requests at PILs  
may be assigned DAUC for needed network upgrades with a nominal operating voltage 
of 100 kV or below, consistent with SPP’s explanation in its Deficiency Response and 
January 29 Answer.318   
 We disagree with Savion that the requirement for interconnection customers to 
demonstrate 75% site control for the generating facility tie-line at the Decision Point will 
create a “perverse incentive” for generation developers to secure land around each PIL to 
close out competition.  Further, we believe that Savion’s concern is speculative and is 
sufficiently mitigated by the fact that SPP anticipates identifying hundreds of PILs.319  
We note that this site control requirement currently exists in SPP’s GIP and find that this 
requirement remains just and reasonable as applied to the proposed GCP.320  Specifically, 
we find that the requirement helps ensure that interconnection customers that elect to 
proceed beyond the Decision Point are not speculative and have acquired appropriate site 
control. 
 We deny commenters’ requests for further reporting requirements.  While we 
acknowledge the importance of transparency in interconnection study processes, the 
Commission requires posting of certain statistics related to the timing and processing of 
interconnection studies as well as reporting on delays, which are reflected in SPP’s 
existing GIP as well as its proposed GCP.321  We agree with SPP that the CPP proposal 
includes ample reporting requirements via interconnection study metrics reporting, 
penalty summary statistics, and other data, and that additional reporting may be 
burdensome and duplicative.322  
 Further, we recognize SPP’s commitment in its Deficiency Response to correct on 
compliance several errors in proposed Attachment AY, section V by:  (1) replacing 
 
318 Deficiency Response at 17; SPP January 29 Answer at 3-4. 
319 Transmittal at 26; Raheem Test. at 19 (explaining that the CPP transition study 
has identified over 680 potential PILs that could accommodate upwards of 250 GWs of 
new interconnection requests). 
320 SPP Tariff, attach. V, § 8 (26.0.0), § 8.5.2 (Decision Point Two).  
321 Order No. 845, 163 FERC ¶ 61,043 at P 305.  See SPP, Tariff, attach. V, § 3 
(Interconnection Requests) (27.0.0), § 3.5.2 (Requirement to Post Interconnection Study 
Metrics); SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § V.3 (0.0.0), §§ V.3.5.2 (Requirement to 
Post Interconnection Study Metrics). 
322 SPP December 9 Answer at 6-10. 

--- PAGE 128 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 72 - 
certain references to a single UPIL with references to multiple UPILs in Attachment AY, 
section V.4.2.2(3)(c) to clarify that interconnection customers with interconnection 
requests at different UPILs in the same cluster cost allocation assessment group may be 
assessed a portion of the costs of system network upgrades; (2) adding Tariff language 
providing that, to proceed past the Decision Point, an interconnection customer with an 
interconnection request at a PIL is expected to provide SPP with a written indication of 
the interconnection customer’s intent to withdraw or proceed in the ICS; (3) removing the 
clause “less the amount of Financial Security One” in Attachment AY, section V.8.5.1, 
such that the sentence will read “DAUC FS:  Twenty percent (20%) of the total Directly 
Assigned Upgrade Costs allocated to the Interconnection Request in accordance with 
Section V.4.2.2 of this Attachment AY;” and (4) replacing the capitalized terms 
“Affected Systems Study” and “Affected System Network Upgrade” with non-capitalized 
terms in Attachment AY, section V.8.14(c).323  We find that these revisions will help 
clarify the GCP.  Accordingly, we direct SPP to submit, within 30 days of the date of this 
order, a further compliance filing to revise Attachment AY to make these corrections.  
However, we decline to require SPP to revise the financial security forfeiture provisions 
in Attachment AY, section V.8.14(c) to apply to impacts to lower-queued, in addition to 
equally-queued, interconnection requests given SPP’s explanation that it does not 
anticipate impacts to lower-queued interconnection requests, as the ICS framework uses a 
single Decision Point and provides for limited restudy.324     
 In addition, we direct SPP to further clarify when it will post GRID-C rates.  As 
noted above, SPP states that posting GRID-C rates and PILs for the applicable ICS prior 
to the opening of the queue cluster window will provide interconnection customers with 
upfront cost certainty and optimal locations to interconnect before interconnection 
customers submit their interconnection requests.325  Proposed Attachment AY, section 
V.4.2.2.1 reflects this timing requirement for the GRID-C posting.326  However, proposed 
Attachment AY, section IV.3.3 states that GRID-C rates are set “before the closing of” 
the queue cluster window to which they apply.327  Accordingly, we direct SPP to submit, 
within 30 days of the date of this order, a further compliance filing to revise Attachment 
 
323 See supra PP 108-111; see also Deficiency Response at 16-23. 
324 Deficiency Response at 23. 
325 See supra P 99; see also Transmittal at 28, 95. 
326 SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § V.4 (0.0.0), § V.4.2.2.1 (Grid 
Contribution) (“The calculation method for the GRID Contribution is detailed in  
Section IV.3 of this Attachment AY of the Tariff and the results shall be posted  
prior to the opening of the annual ICS Queue Cluster Window.”  Emphasis added). 
327 Id., attach. AY, § IV.3 (0.0.0), IV.3.3 (Grid Contribution Structure). 

--- PAGE 129 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 73 - 
AY, section IV.3.3 to require that, consistent with Attachment AY, section V.4.2.2.1, 
SPP will post GRID-C rates prior to the opening of the relevant ICS queue cluster 
window. 
4. 
Transition 
a. 
SPP Proposal 
 SPP proposes a transition period for implementing the Transmission Assessment 
Procedures under the CPP.328  SPP states that the first CPP planning cycle will be limited 
to two years, with CPP-10 transmission assessments performed in each year and no initial 
CPP-20 transmission assessment.  SPP explains that the initial GRID-C rates will be 
calculated, and initial PILs identified, in a CPP “transition study” to be completed by SPP 
prior to the first CPP planning cycle and posted on SPP’s website.329  SPP explains that 
the purpose of the transition study is to align technical assumptions between the previous 
ITP Assessment processes, the 20-Year Assessment, and the new CPP.  SPP states that it 
has already commenced the transition study as part of its current 20-Year Assessment 
process, which is expected to be completed by the end of 2026, to enable work to begin 
on GRID-C rate and PIL identification in an expedited manner.  
 SPP states that, assuming a March 1, 2026 effective date for the proposed Tariff 
provisions in this filing, SPP anticipates commencing the first CPP planning cycle on 
March 1, 2026, and concluding the first CPP-10 in 2028, with the initial ICS queue 
cluster window opening 30 days after the requested effective date (i.e., April 1, 2026), 
and closing 60 days after the date that SPP posts the initial GRID-C rate.330  SPP states 
that it expects to post the initial GRID-C rate by the end of 2026.  However, SPP explains 
that, under the proposed transition procedures, if a DISIS queue cluster window has 
commenced prior to the effective date of the Tariff provisions in the instant filing, and  
the DISIS queue cluster window has not yet closed, all interconnection customers with 
requests in that DISIS queue cluster window may either transition their requests to the 
 
328 Transmittal at 40; SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV.1 (0.0.0), § IV.1.13 
(Transition from ITP Assessment to CPP). 
329 Transmittal at 40; SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § IV.3 (0.0.0), § IV.3.9 
(Initial GRID Contribution). 
330 Transmittal at 40; SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § V.5 (Transition to GCP 
Procedures) (0.0.0).  Under the proposed transition provisions, SPP may extend the initial 
queue cluster window for the ICS by 60 days beyond its originally scheduled closure 
date.  Transmittal at 40 (citing SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § V.5 (0.0.0), § V.5.1.2 
(Current Open Cluster Windows)). 

--- PAGE 130 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 74 - 
ICS or withdraw from the DISIS interconnection process without any forfeiture of study 
deposits or financial securities.331   
b. 
Comments and Protests 
 APA asserts that the CPP transition and transition study may result in a portfolio 
that far exceeds the cost estimates used in vetting the CPP GRID-C formula in the 
stakeholder process without any additional generation being added to the study.332  
Specifically, APA asserts that the CPP transition study has deviated from what 
stakeholders approved by deferring some 765 kV transmission projects, potentially 
exceeding $30 billion in costs, that were identified in the ITP 2025 to the CPP transition.  
APA argues that these 765 kV transmission projects will increase initial GRID-C rates 
without providing corresponding benefits.  APA requests that SPP commit to explore 
means of addressing unintended consequences of the transition study and its impacts on 
the GRID-C rate.333  APA additionally requests that SPP continue to identify reliability 
and cost effectiveness benefits after the transition study, develop a mechanism to track 
GRID-C payments, and measure benefits to those paying the GRID-C charge to ensure 
that interconnection customers continue to receive benefits.334   
 Further, APA argues that as SPP transitions from the ITP and DISIS frameworks 
to the CPP, existing interconnection customers in either the DISIS or the Expedited 
Resource Adequacy Study (ERAS)335 queues may interconnect at some planned PILs 
prior to the CPP start and, thus, be able to access the PILs without paying GRID-C 
charges.336  Thus, APA argues that CPP interconnection customers will pay GRID-C 
rates based on an assumed transmission capacity that will, in reality, be lower due to 
interconnection customers in the ERAS and 2024 DISIS.337  APA contends that either the 
 
331 Transmittal at 41; SPP, Proposed Tariff, attach. AY, § V.5 (0.0.0), § V.5.1.2 
(Current Open Cluster Windows).  SPP states that the next DISIS queue cluster window 
would open the earlier of April 1, 2026, or the completion of Decision Point Two for the 
DISIS-2024 interconnection cluster. 
332 APA Protest at 7-8; APA Deficiency Response Protest at 5-6. 
333 APA Deficiency Response Protest at 7. 
334 Id. at 7-8. 
335 SPP, Tariff, attach. AW (ERAS Procedures) (0.0.0). 
336 APA Protest at 8; APA Deficiency Response Protest at 5. 
337 APA Deficiency Response Protest at 5. 

--- PAGE 131 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 75 - 
GRID-C rates should be adjusted to account for the PILs “taken” by interconnection 
customers that are not subject to the GRID-C charge, or SPP should be required to update 
the sites that are no longer available and ensure that the costs of the CPP upgrades needed 
to facilitate those PILs are not passed on to CPP interconnection customers.338  As 
discussed above, APA urges the Commission to require SPP to periodically report on 
how transition costs will be managed, segmented, and allocated by providing compliance 
reports for the first two CPP cycles.339 
 PIOs similarly note that challenges in the CPP transition study include establishing 
an initial set of PILs that remain unaffected by the parallel interconnection studies 
currently underway in SPP and ensuring that the initial GRID-C rate does not exceed 
commercial viability thresholds.340  PIOs urge the Commission to accept the CPP 
proposal but also to “exert heightened oversight during the transitionary period and direct 
SPP to implement robust safeguards to ensure that it is as efficient and successful as 
possible.”341 
c. 
Answers 
 SPP argues that concerns that the recent deferrals of potential transmission 
upgrades from the ITP 2025 will increase GRID-C rates for the first CPP cycle are 
speculative.342  Further, SPP argues that APA does not explain why the costs of 765 kV 
transmission projects that will benefit interconnection customers in addition to load 
should not be included in the GRID-C rate.  SPP also notes that it has implemented 
protections to ensure that certain pre-existing issues are not reflected in the GRID-C rate, 
such as the stability-related upgrades necessary to accommodate ERAS interconnection 
requests, which were deferred to the ITP.  Further, SPP emphasizes that the transition 
study process provides ample transparency and allows for robust stakeholder involvement 
in both designing the study scope and identifying potential solutions.  In addition, as 
noted above, SPP also states that, consistent with its cost allocation reporting practices,  
it intends to monitor on an ongoing basis the CPP and its benefits to both load and 
generation to help ensure that benefits remain reasonably commensurate with allocated 
 
338 APA Protest at 8; APA Deficiency Response Protest at 5.  
339 See supra P 85; APA Protest at 8. 
340 PIOs Deficiency Response Comments at 2. 
341 Id. at 1-3.  
342 SPP December 9 Answer at 16 (citing APA Protest at 8); SPP January 29 
Answer at 9-10. 

--- PAGE 132 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 76 - 
costs.343  SPP notes that stakeholders will have the opportunity to work with SPP to 
develop a detailed and transparent methodology for identifying generator benefits under 
the CPP, including the transition phase, for incorporation into the CPP Manual. 
 SPP also disagrees with commenters’ concerns that interconnection customers in 
SPP’s ERAS or 2024 DISIS process will “take away” benefits to interconnection 
customers by interconnecting at PILs.344  SPP argues that such criticisms are speculative 
and unavailing, as the initial PILs will be based on the results of the CPP transition study 
and, thus, have not yet been determined, and the transition study process provides for 
stakeholder participation.  SPP further argues that commenters do not explain or provide 
any evidence to support how the ERAS or DISIS interconnection processes have or will 
“take away” PILs that have yet to be identified. 
d. 
Commission Determination 
 We find that SPP’s proposed process to transition from its existing transmission 
planning and generator interconnection processes to the CPP is just and reasonable and 
not unduly discriminatory or preferential.  As SPP explains, the CPP transition study  
will align the existing ITP Assessment processes and the existing 20-Year Assessment 
with the new CPP and identify initial GRID-C rates and PILs.  Furthermore, while 
interconnection customers participating in the initial ICS will not receive information on 
GRID-C rates prior to the commencement of the queue cluster window, as they would 
under the regular CPP process, SPP will post GRID-C rates at least 60 days in advance of 
the close of the queue cluster window, allowing time for interconnection customers to 
incorporate this information into their decision-making. 
 In response to APA’s concerns about the potential inclusion of certain deferred 
and new 765 kV network upgrades in the CPP transition study,345 we note that SPP will 
evaluate the benefits and cost effectiveness of transmission projects prior to selection 
under the CPP-20 transmission assessment process, and SPP intends to monitor on an 
ongoing basis to help ensure that benefits remain reasonably commensurate with 
allocated costs.346  Further, as SPP explains, the inclusion of specific transmission 
facilities in the transition study is speculative, and the transition study process provides 
for transparency and stakeholder participation in scope development and solution 
 
343 SPP January 29 Answer at 11. 
344 Id. at 9-10 (citing APA Deficiency Response Protest at 5; PIOs Deficiency 
Response Comments at 2). 
345 APA Protest at 7-8; APA Deficiency Response Protest at 4-5. 
346 SPP January 29 Answer at 9-11.  

--- PAGE 133 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 77 - 
identification.347  SPP also explains that stakeholders will have the opportunity to work 
with SPP to develop a detailed method that will identify generator benefits under the 
CPP, including the transition phase, for incorporation into the CPP Manual.  
Additionally, as noted above, the CPP proposal includes reporting on the outcome of all 
transmission assessments.   
 In addition, regarding concerns that interconnection customers in SPP’s existing 
DISIS processes may request to interconnect at PILs identified in the transition study 
prior to the start of the CPP, we find that such concerns are speculative because SPP 
explains that the transition study has not yet determined an initial set of PILs.  Further, 
those existing interconnection customers already have established queue positions for 
their interconnection requests, while potential CPP interconnection customers do not yet 
have established queue positions for their interconnection requests.  Thus, the fact that 
some existing interconnection customers in SPP’s ERAS and DISIS queues may 
interconnect at a certain location before CPP interconnection customers is a natural 
consequence of the Commission’s longstanding queue priority requirements.  Further,  
in any event, we note that interconnection customers in SPP’s existing interconnection 
queues will pay the “but for” cost of the interconnection facilities and network upgrades 
necessary to enable their interconnection pursuant to the Tariff.  As such, these 
interconnection customers do not rely on CPP upgrades to enable interconnection to the 
SPP transmission system. 
The Commission orders: 
 
(A) 
SPP’s proposal is hereby accepted, effective March 1, 2026, as requested, 
as discussed in the body of this order. 
 
(B) 
SPP is hereby directed to submit a compliance filing within 30 days of the 
date of this order, as discussed in the body of this order. 
 
By the Commission.  Commissioner Rosner is concurring with a separate statement 
attached. 
 
Commissioner Chang is concurring with a separate statement 
attached. 
 
( S E A L ) 
 
 
Debbie-Anne A. Reese, 
Secretary. 
 
347 SPP December 9 Answer at 16. 

--- PAGE 134 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 78 - 
Appendix – Tariff Records 
Southwest Power Pool, Inc. 
Open Access Transmission Tariff, Sixth Revised Volume No. 1 
 
Docket No. ER26-414-000 
• Table of Contents, Table of Contents (17.0.8) 
• Definitions B, 1 Definitions B (9.0.0) 
• Definitions C, 1 Definitions C (2.0.1) 
• Definitions D, 1 Definitions D (8.0.0) 
• Definitions E, 1 Definitions E (5.0.5) 
• Definitions G, 1 Definitions G (4.0.1) 
• Definitions I, 1 Definitions I (4.0.2) 
• Definitions N, 1 Definitions N (4.0.0) 
• Definitions T, 1 Definitions T (6.0.0) 
• Section 25, 25 Compensation for Transmission Service (1.0.5) 
• Section 34, 34 Rates and Charges (0.0.5) 
• Schedule 11, Schedule 11 Base Plan Zonal Charge (10.0.5) 
• Schedule 11 Addendum 3, Schedule 11 Addendum 3 (0.0.0) 
• Attachment J Section II, Attachment J Section II (6.0.0) 
• Attachment J Section V, Attachment J Section V (4.0.8) 
• Attachment J Section X, Attachment J Section X (0.0.0) 
• Attachment L Section IV, Attachment L Section IV (2.0.2) 
• Attachment O Section I, Attachment O Section I (9.0.0) 
• Attachment O Section IV, Attachment O Section IV (12.0.0) 
• Attachment O Section V, Attachment O Section V (10.0.0) 
• Attachment V Section 1, Attachment V Section 1 (22.0.0) 
• Attachment V Section 3, Attachment V Section 3 (29.0.0) 

--- PAGE 135 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 79 - 
• Attachment V Section 5, Attachment V Section 5 (16.0.0) 
• Attachment V Section 11A, Attachment V Section 11A (15.0.0) 
• Attachment V Appendix 3, Attachment V Appendix 3 (21.0.0) 
• Att. V Appendix 6, Attachment V Appendix 6  Generator Interconnection 
Agreement (30.0.0) 
• Attachment V Appendix 8, Attachment V Appendix 8 Interim Generator 
Interconnection... (28.0.0) 
• Attachment V Appendix 13, Attachment V Appendix 13 (26.0.0) 
• Attachment V Appendix 14, Attachment V Appendix 14 (26.0.0) 
• Attachment Y Section I, Attachment Y Section I (10.0.0) 
• Att. Z2 Section IV, Attachment Z2 Section IV (5.0.0) 
• Attachment AQ Section 3, Attachment AQ Section 3 (4.0.0) 
• Attachment AY TOC, Attachment AY Table of Contents (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY Section 1, Attachment AY Section I (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY Section II, Attachment AY Section II (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY Section III, Attachment AY Section III (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY Section IV, Attachment AY Section IV (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY Section IV.1, Attachment AY Section IV.1 (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY Section IV.2, Attachment AY Section IV.2 (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY Section IV.3, Attachment AY Section IV.3 (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY Section V, Attachment AY Section V (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY Section V.1, Attachment AY Section V.1 (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY Section V.2, Attachment AY Section V.2 (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY Section V.3, Attachment AY Section V.3 (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY Section V.4, Attachment AY Section V.4 (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY Section V.5, Attachment AY Section V.5 (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY Section V.6, Attachment AY Section V.6 (0.0.0) 

--- PAGE 136 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 80 - 
• Att. AY Section V.7, Attachment AY Section V.7 (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY Section V.8, Attachment AY Section V.8 (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY Section V.9, Attachment AY Section V.9 (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY Section V.10, Attachment AY Section V.10 (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY Section V.11, Attachment AY Section V.11 (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY Section V.12, Attachment AY Section V.12 (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY Section V.13, Attachment AY Section V.13 (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY App. 1, Attachment AY Appendix 1 (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY App. 2, Attachment AY Appendix 2 (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY App. 3, Attachment AY Appendix 3 (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY App. 4, Attachment AY Appendix 4 (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY App. 5, Attachment AY Appendix 5 (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY App. 6, Attachment AY Appendix 6 (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY App. 7, Attachment AY Appendix 7 (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY App. 8, Attachment AY Appendix 8 (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY App. 9, Attachment AY Appendix 9 (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY App. 10, Attachment AY Appendix 10 (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY App. 11, Attachment AY Appendix 11 (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY App. 12, Attachment AY Appendix 12 (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY App. 13, Attachment AY Appendix 13 (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY App. 14, Attachment AY Appendix 14 (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY App. 15, Attachment AY Appendix 15 (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY App. 16, Attachment AY Appendix 16 (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY App. 17, Attachment AY Appendix 17 (0.0.0) 
• Att. AY App. 18, Attachment AY Appendix 18 (0.0.0) 
 

--- PAGE 137 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 81 - 
Docket No. ER26-414-001 
• Attachment AY, Attachment AY Consolidated Planning Process (0.1.0) 

--- PAGE 138 ---
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Southwest Power Pool, Inc. 
Docket Nos. 
ER26-414-000 
ER26-414-001 
 
(Issued March 13, 2026) 
 
ROSNER, Commissioner, concurring:  
 
 
Today the Commission approves the Southwest Power Pool’s (SPP) Consolidated 
Planning Process (CPP), marking a major step forward for improved speed and efficiency 
in generator interconnection and transmission planning that promises to deliver the 
electrons our country so badly needs.  Faced with electric demand growth at levels not 
seen in 25 years,1 SPP and its stakeholders have risen to the occasion with one of the 
most innovative, common-sense proposals presented to the Commission since the 
inception of open access transmission service.  This proposal will get transmission built 
smarter and connect new generation faster, helping to make energy more reliable and 
affordable in the SPP region.  And it has done so with the unanimous support of both its 
member states and stakeholders. 
 
CPP delivers these benefits by eliminating the silos between the transmission 
planning process and the generator interconnection process, synthesizing and 
streamlining them into one recurring three-year planning cycle.  These two processes are 
inextricably linked: generators need transmission to sell the electricity they produce, and 
transmission companies build the grid and sell the transmission services that generators 
depend on to get their power to customers.  CPP recognizes that generation and load 
share one transmission system, and plans for both of their needs holistically.  As a result, 
SPP can reduce interconnection study costs by millions of dollars, potentially avoid over 
$100 million in duplicative transmission costs every planning cycle, 2 and at the same 
time deliver some of the shortest generator interconnection timelines in the country.  
   
 
1 Press Release, EIA, EIA Forecasts Strongest Four-Year Growth in U.S. 
Electricity Demand Since 2000, Fueled by Data Centers (Jan. 13, 2026), 
https://www.eia.gov/pressroom/releases/press582.php. 
2 Press Release, SPP, SPP Consolidated Planning Process to Reduce Costs and 
Help Meet Nation’s Growing Energy Needs (Aug. 5, 2025), https://www.spp.org/news-
list/spp-consolidated-planning-process-to-reduce-costs-and-help-meet-nation-s-growing-
energy-needs/. 

--- PAGE 139 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- - 2 - - 
 
 
Understanding how CPP delivers these benefits requires that we review the status 
quo planning process in a typical region (see Figure titled “Status Quo Transmission 
Planning”).  First, the grid operator plans the new transmission lines needed to keep the 
grid reliable and economically efficient given demand forecasted over the next ten to 
twenty years.  Although planning processes include forecasted demand, by design, they 
typically only reflect generators that have completed the interconnection process and 
don’t always identify the transmission upgrades needed to integrate future, forecasted 
generation growth.  Instead, there is a separate generator interconnection study process 
that identifies only the incremental grid upgrades needed to integrate each individual 
power plant, often resulting in studying and restudying what is needed until all 
prospective generators are willing to accept the cost of the transmission upgrades they 
need to get their individual facilities online.  Because the costs of incremental 
transmission upgrades are unknown until the generator interconnection process is 
complete, over 70% of generators end up dropping out of the queues.3  And because so 
many generators drop out, interconnection studies and cost estimates frequently become 
stale, and the grid operator has to run study after study to reevaluate what transmission 
will be needed, dragging out the process for three to six years.4  As a result, it takes too 
long and costs too much to get a generator connected, ultimately making energy more 
expensive and less reliable for customers. 
 
Enter CPP.  Unlike the status quo, CPP begins with a holistic plan that identifies 
the new transmission lines needed to meet forecasted demand and forecasted generation 
over the next 20 years (see Figure titled “Consolidated Planning Process (CPP)”).  
Importantly, the CPP will identify planned interconnection locations (PILs), which are 
places on the grid with existing or planned transmission capacity available for new 
generators to connect to.  In other words, CPP signals to generators on the front end—
rather than years later—where they should interconnect to minimize costs and maximize 
benefits to the entire grid.  SPP will then annually run a second pass of its transmission 
planning cycle that looks 10 years forward and allows generators to secure their spots if 
they want to interconnect to a PIL.  Generators are required to pay their fair share into the 
transmission planning pot via a one-time, per-MW, upfront entry fee—the “GRID-C” 
charge.  No power plant can obtain financing when the transmission costs are either 
unknown or subject to significant revision based on “that next study.”  CPP solves that 
conundrum. 
 
Critically, SPP publishes the GRID-C charge before interconnection requests are 
submitted annually.  For the first time, SPP’s interconnection customers can know what 
 
3 J. Rand et al., Queued Up: 2025 Edition, Lawrence Berkeley National 
Laboratory, at 31 (2025), https://eta-publications.lbl.gov/sites/default/files/2025-
12/queued_up_2025_edition_12.15.2025.pdf. 
4 Id. at 40. 

--- PAGE 140 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- - 3 - - 
 
they will pay to connect to the grid before entering the interconnection queue, turning the 
page on never-ending studies, restudies, and cost uncertainty that ultimately lead to 
generators withdrawing.  Frankly, this shift is more than an evolution, it’s a revolution.  It 
enables a series of other reforms in SPP’s new Interconnection Cluster Study (ICS), 
including: a higher up-front entry fee, one single Decision Point for generators to 
withdraw or move forward (instead of three today), shorter restudy times, and ultimately, 
an interconnection agreement within 9-10 months from the close of the application 
window.  This timeline is more than 65% faster than the average interconnection waitlist 
across the country, because SPP is doing a comprehensive system analysis before fielding 
interconnection requests, offering generators certainty and reducing speculation - in 
exchange for paying fixed fees up front and allowing fewer opportunities for generators 
to withdraw.  The record overwhelmingly illustrates that this is a trade all stakeholders 
are happy to make. 
 
It is also important to note that the CPP-20 study is exactly the type of smart, 
efficient long-term transmission planning that the Commission intended when we 
developed Order No. 1920.5  Assessing transmission needs holistically and proactively 
will help SPP build the backbone grid infrastructure needed to bring new power and 
customers online in a way that maximizes benefits and minimizes costs for consumers. 
 
Further, none of CPP’s accelerated study processes could be achieved without 
modern, automated engineering study processes that leverage cutting-edge software.  I 
have repeatedly emphasized the crucial importance of automating interconnection studies 
so we can connect new generation to the grid faster.6  It is truly exciting that CPP will 
take another leap forward by automating long-term transmission planning along with 
interconnection studies.  
 
In sum, CPP represents the innovation that America needs to facilitate cost-
effective transmission buildout and generator interconnection, reduce costs, and enhance 
system reliability.  Today’s order is a step toward building a grid that can win the AI 
race, bring back American manufacturing, and deliver the abundant, reliable, and 
 
5 Bld’g for the Future Through Elec. Reg’l Transmission Planning & Cost 
Allocation, Order No. 1920, 187 FERC ¶ 61,068, at PP 1625-48, order on reh’g & 
clarification, Order No. 1920-A, 189 FERC ¶ 61,126 (2024), order on reh’g & 
clarification, Order No. 1920-B, 191 FERC ¶ 61,026 (2025). 
6 See David Rosner, Comm’r., Letters to ISOs/RTOs Regarding Interconnection 
Automation (Mar. 17, 2025), https://www.ferc.gov/news-events/news/commissioner-
rosners-letters-isosrtos-regarding-interconnection-automation; see also David Rosner, 
Written Testimony of David Rosner, Commissioner, Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission (United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Energy, Feb. 3, 
2026). 

--- PAGE 141 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- - 4 - - 
 
affordable energy we need.  I strongly encourage other transmission providers to take 
note of the innovative approach the CPP promises, and to consider developing similar 
integrated solutions tailored to meet the pressing needs within their own footprints.  
For these reasons, I respectfully concur. 
 
_______________________ 
David Rosner 
Commissioner 

--- PAGE 142 ---
 
Figures 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 143 ---
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
Southwest Power Pool, Inc. 
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 
ER26-414-001 
 
(Issued March 13, 2026) 
 
 
CHANG, Commissioner, concurring: 
 
 
Today’s order approves SPP’s Consolidated Planning Process, a proposal 
grounded in a recognition of the integrated nature of the transmission planning and 
generator interconnection processes.  I write separately to commend SPP on taking a bold 
step to address the needs of its system and to encourage other regional transmission 
operators (RTOs) and independent system operators (ISOs) to explore comparable 
reforms. 
 
Currently, the adequacy of the nation’s transmission system is being tested.  Rapid 
and accelerating load growth, backlogged interconnection queues, and limited regional 
and interregional transmission capabilities are among the challenges exacerbating 
reliability concerns and raising electricity bills for consumers.  We cannot meet these 
challenges without effective and efficient buildout of the transmission system.  SPP’s 
proposal recognizes that transmission planning and generator interconnection processes 
search for the same solution: ensuring that the transmission system reliably delivers 
affordable power to consumers.   
 
I have written about the need to integrate the generator interconnection process 
with transmission planning1 and am glad to see that SPP is taking the first step down this 
path with the CPP proposal.  The single biggest bottleneck to getting needed new 
generation online to serve the dramatic increase in load growth is the interconnection 
process.  The Commission and many of the nation’s transmission providers have been 
working to improve that process2 but it will take actions like the one that SPP has taken 
 
1 Judy Chang, et. al., It’s All One System: Integrate Transmission and 
Interconnection Planning to Support Load Growth, Utility Dive (Sept. 26, 2025) 
https://www.utilitydive.com/news/its-all-one-system-integrate-transmission-and-
interconnection-planning-Judy-Chang/761240/. 
2 See, e.g., Improvements to Generator Interconnection Procs. & Agreements, 
Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054, at P 814, order on reh’g, 185 FERC ¶ 61,063 
 

--- PAGE 144 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 2 - 
here to redesign how the transmission system is planned and paid for to truly 
accommodate the needed new generation to serve load.   
 
SPP’s CPP proposal addresses the core issue that has been delaying the 
interconnection of new generation: transmission upgrade cost uncertainties.  Currently, 
interconnection customers must make difficult financial choices at many points in the 
interconnection process.  They face requirements to submit large, non-refundable 
deposits, subjecting themselves to significant withdrawal penalties without sufficient 
confidence regarding their network upgrade cost exposure.  As we have seen in multiple 
examples over the years, generators may not find out that they must pay for expensive 
network upgrades until late stages in the interconnection process.3  These cost 
assignments can significantly reduce the financial viability of some generation projects, 
resulting in their withdrawal from the queue, which in turn can cause time-consuming 
restudies of the other generators in the queue, adding even greater uncertainties.  We have 
already witnessed cascading restudies and delays that undermine our ability to get needed 
generation online.     
 
SPP addresses this issue by redesigning a component of its interconnection 
process: how cost assignments are provided to interconnecting generators.  SPP’s 
proposal advances its transmission planning process and applies the Commission’s cost 
causation principle to determine the transmission upgrade costs and make them available 
to the generators that would like to interconnect at certain pre-identified locations on the 
SPP system.  The cost information is available to generators so that they can make their 
location  and financing decisions before entering the interconnection queue, which should 
streamline and significantly increase the pace of the buildout of new generation.  
 
SPP’s proposal also addresses another pressing challenge: affordability.  The 
transmission network should be developed with an eye toward the long-term needs of the 
system, not leaning too heavily on network upgrades triggered by new generation.  SPP’s 
proposal rightfully focuses on planning the backbone system that will be needed to 
support rapidly growing load and the resources needed to serve it.  With a focus on the 
longer term, the system will cost less for consumers because a well-planned system will 
require fewer piecemeal network upgrades and meet system needs more efficiently.   
 
With today’s order, SPP can move forward with its innovative proposal and 
customers can begin receiving the benefits of an integrated transmission and 
 
(2023), order on reh’g, Order No. 2023-A, 186 FERC ¶ 61,199, errata notice, 188 FERC 
¶ 61,134 (2024). 
3 See, e.g. Tenaska Clear Creek Wind, LLC v. Southwest Power Pool, Inc., 177 
FERC ¶ 61,200 (2021). 

--- PAGE 145 ---
Docket Nos. ER26-414-000 and ER26-414-001 
- 3 - 
interconnection planning process.4  As other regions continue to grapple with the same 
underlying challenges that led SPP to develop CPP, I encourage other RTOs/ISOs to 
explore similar reforms to break the pernicious cycles that undermine generation 
development and lead to inefficient transmission system buildout.  Facing rapid load 
growth and the need for new resources, we must meet this moment, and proposals like 
SPP's put us on the path to do so.  
 
For these reasons, I respectfully concur.  
 
________________________ 
Judy W. Chang 
Commissioner 
 
 
 
4 While I support SPP’s proposal, I want to highlight one part of the CPP that is 
extremely important and will warrant continued monitoring.  SPP has committed to 
publish information on the detailed calculations and assumptions that will form the cost 
new interconnection customers will face to enter the CPP.  These are critical to how 
SPP’s proposal works because they establish how SPP determines what portion of the 
transmission buildout will be assigned to new generation.  I will be watching, with 
interest, how these numbers turn out and what assumptions SPP makes along the way. 
