--- PAGE 1 ---
1 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads 
) 
to the 
)  
Docket No.      RM26-4-000 
Interstate Transmission System 
) 
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL COMMENTS OF THE  
PENNSYLVANIA OFFICE OF CONSUMER ADVOCATE, 
DELAWARE DIVISION OF THE PUBLIC ADVOCATE, AND 
STATE OF NEW JERSEY, DIVISION OF THE RATE COUNSEL 
 
I. 
INTRODUCTION 
The Pennsylvania Office of Consumer Advocate (PA OCA),1 Delaware Division of the 
Public Advocate (DE DPA),2 and State of New Jersey, Division of the Rate Counsel3 (collectively, 
the Joint Consumer Advocates or JCA) submit these Supplemental Comments4 in response to the 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (Commission’s or FERC’s) Advance Notice of 
Proposed Rulemaking (ANOPR)5 in the captioned docket.  
 
1 The PA OCA represents the interests of Pennsylvania utility consumers before the Commission. See 71 P.S. § 309-4 
(outlining powers of Consumer Advocate to represent residential Pennsylvania utility consumers in FERC proceedings 
and federal courts). 
2 The DE DPA represents the interests of Delaware regulated utility consumers, including before the Commission. 
See 29 Del. C. § 8716(e). 
3 New Jersey Rate Counsel is the administrative agency charged under New Jersey Law with the general protection 
of the interests of utility ratepayers. N.J.S.A. § 52:27EE- 46 et seq. Rate Counsel is explicitly empowered to represent 
the public interest in federal proceedings. N.J.S.A. §52:27EE-55. 
4 The PA OCA and DE DPA submitted comments and reply comments in this docket. See Joint Consumer Advocate 
Comments, PA OCA and DE DPA, RM26-4 (Nov. 21, 2025); see also Joint Consumer Advocate Reply Comments, 
PA OCA, DE DPA, and Illinois Attorney General (IL OA), RM26-4 (Dec. 5, 2025). 
5 Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Notice Inviting Comments, Docket 
No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 27, 2025) (the Commission issued the ANOPR following a directive from the Secretary of 
Energy (“Secretary”) pursuant to section 203 of the Department of Energy Organization Act); see also the full text 
of the proposed ANOPR, Ensuring the Timely and Orderly Interconnection of Large Loads, Advance Notice of 
Proposed Rulemaking, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 23, 2025). 

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
 
In the ANOPR, FERC proposed to allocate 100 percent of network upgrade costs to large 
load customers.6 In response to this proposal, the following Supplemental Comments have been 
submitted in this docket: 
• March 30, 2026: WIRES’ Supplemental Comments with attached Whitepaper titled 
“The Risks of Cost Shifts in Serving Large Loads Under a Framework with Direct 
Allocation of Transmission Costs” (WIRES Whitepaper);7 
• April 15, 2026: Harvard Electricity Law Initiative’s (ELI’s) Supplemental 
Comments;8 
• May 12, 2026: Transmission Access Policy Study Group’s (TAPS’) Supplemental 
Comments;9 
• June 6, 2026: FirstEnergy Service Company’s (FirstEnergy’s) Supplemental 
Comments with attached Whitepaper titled “A Provent Framework for a New 
American Problem” (FirstEnergy Whitepaper);10 and 
• June 8, 2026: Maven Solutions’ Supplemental Comments.11 
In response to the above-listed Supplemental Comments, the JCA submits these Supplemental 
Comments and respectfully requests that the Commission consider these Supplemental Comments 
when taking action this month in this docket.12   
II. 
SUMMARY OF SUPPLEMENTAL COMMENTS OF WIRES, HARVARD ELI, 
TAPS, AND FIRSTENERGY 
In the ANOPR, FERC proposed to allocate 100 percent of network upgrade costs to large 
load customers.13 
 
6 ANOPR at P 25 (see Principal Eight proposing that load and hybrid facilities should be responsible for 
100 percent of the network upgrades assigned to them through the interconnection studies). 
7 WIRES Supplemental Comments, RM26-4 (Mar. 30, 2026). 
8 Harvard ELI Supplemental Comments, RM26-4 (Apr. 15, 2026). 
9 TAPS Supplemental Comments, RM26-4 (May 12, 2026). 
10 FirstEnergy Supplemental Comments, RM26-4 (Jun. 6, 2026). 
11 Maven Solutions Supplemental Comments, RM26-4 (Jun. 8, 2026). 
12 On April 16, 2026, the Commission issued an Order providing Notice of its Intent to Act, stating that it will act by 
the end of June of 2026, on the comments that have been submitted. Order Regarding Intent to Act ¶ 4.  
13 ANOPR at P 25 (see Principal Eight proposing that load and hybrid facilities should be responsible for 
100 percent of the network upgrades assigned to them through the interconnection studies). 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
 
In its Supplemental Comments, WIRES argued that the “the ANOPR proposal to allocate 
100 percent of network upgrade costs to large load customers” under a strict application of the 
Commission’s “higher of” rate policy creates “the potential for unintended cost shifts to retail 
customers under certain implementation scenarios.” WIRES acknowledged the importance of 
addressing stranded asset risk (but did not address it) and focused solely on the cost allocation risk 
associated within a framework that would solely direct assign the cost of network upgrades to large 
load customers, ignoring a disaggregated pricing framework.14 
In response to WIRES, the Harvard ELI directed the Commission toward a potential 
“disaggregated” pricing model but did not go so far as to recommend that the Commission 
affirmatively adopt such a framework.15 Rather, the Harvard ELI stated that the Commission could 
consider a “disaggregated” pricing model and could require utilities to disclose disaggregated 
rates.16 
Also, in response to WIRES, TAPS argued that FERC is not restricted to the “higher of” 
policy. TAPS argued that FERC developed its “higher of” rate policy decades ago and did not 
contemplate the current situation caused by data centers’ surging electricity demands on the grid, 
and that FERC has the statutory authority to change its rate policy.17 TAPS cited to the D.C. Circuit, 
which explained that the standard for FERC to depart from a past policy “is not an especially high 
bar: ‘it suffices that the new policy is permissible under the statute, that there are good reasons for 
 
14 WIRES Supplemental Comments at 2. 
15 Harvard ELI Supplemental Comments at 13.  
16 Id.  
17 TAPS Supplemental Comments at 9-10. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
 
it, and that the agency believes it to be better, which the conscious change of course adequately 
indicates.’”18,19  
In its Supplemental Comments, FirstEnergy argued that an expansion rate plus embedded 
cost rate framework based on the natural gas interstate system (Expansion Rate Policy) does not 
raise a concern under FERC’s long-term prohibition on “and pricing”, but even if it does, the “and 
pricing” prohibition is FERC policy, not an appellate court-imposed rule. Appellate courts have 
addressed the “and pricing” prohibition by saying that “all transmission service…must be provided 
at a just and reasonable rate” but they have not categorically adopted a rule requiring FERC to 
apply the prohibition.20 Hence, adopting the natural gas framework to electric transmission 
infrastructure would require neither statutory change nor a novel assertion of agency authority.21  
The FirstEnergy Whitepaper explains that the Expansion Rate Policy would function as 
follows as per the existing natural gas framework (JCA’s clarification additions shown in italics): 
• The hyperscale data center, electric distributor, and transmission owner would 
enter into a 15-year or longer agreement; 
 
18 Id. (citing Southwest Airlines Co. v. FERC, 926 F.3d 851, 856 (D.C. Cir. 2019) (quoting FCC v. Fox Television 
Stations, Inc., 556 U.S. 502, 515 (2009)).   
19 TAPS argued two things should FERC decide not to change its “higher of” policy and chooses not to require upfront 
large load-funding of cost-causer network upgrades. Id. at 7-8, 10-11. First, TAPS argued that FERC must take action 
to ensure that retail level protections (e.g., minimum demand charges, minimum contract terms, exit fees, etc.) are 
consistently and properly reflected in FERC-jurisdictional transmission rates in all instances and require the parties to 
those agreements to clearly identify the impact on other customers before seeking to rely on the Mobile-Sierra 
presumption of reasonableness to avoid that presumption from becoming “a straw man behind which the [FERC] 
hides to evade its statutory duty of ensuring that the American consumer pays just and reasonable rates.” Id. at 7-8. 
Second, TAPS argued that which of the two rate choices – embedded costs with expansion costs rolled in or 
incremental expansion costs – is the permissible “higher” one will be case-specific – depending on the magnitude of 
incremental costs, the rolled-in transmission rate, the load in question, whether that load is sustained over a long period 
of time, etc. Hence, TAPS recommended again the “crediting mechanism” that it advanced in its initial comments as 
being both consistent with this “higher of” principle and more protective against cost-shifts caused by large load 
interconnections. Under that crediting mechanism, the large load would pay the upfront cost of any network upgrades, 
but it would have the opportunity to be credited back that full amount, so long as its transmission usage over time is 
sufficient to over the costs. Id. at 10-11. 
20 FirstEnergy Supplemental Comments, App’x A at 4, 6. 
21 Id., App’x A at 5. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
 
• The agreement would require a data center customer to pay its standard pro-rata 
share of the existing zonal transmission rate, applying same tariff structure 
applicable to all transmission customers within the zone; 
• The agreement would require a data center customer to pay an “expansion rate” 
designed to recover the costs of the network upgrades to the transmission system 
required to support the interconnection between the electric distributor’s facilities 
and the transmission owner’s interconnecting facilities; 
• The expansion-facility costs would be depreciated on a straight-line basis over the 
term of agreement; 
• The transmission owner’s return on equity, capital structure, and debt assumptions 
would mirror those already embedded in the incumbent zonal transmission rate, to 
avoid preferential treatment or punitive pricing; 
• The agreement would require a data center customer to maintain creditworthy 
collateral support equal to the remaining unrecovered balance of the expansion 
facilities over the life of agreement to protect existing customers from residual 
exposure; and  
• At end of term of agreement and the expansion facilities have been fully recovered 
through the expansion rate, the expansion facilities would transition into the 
integrated system rate base.22 
FirstEnergy further argued that additional structural protections could further strengthen this 
existing framework, specifically: 
• The customer’s transmission-rate contribution could be calculated based on the 
higher of actual demand or a minimum contractual demand threshold, preventing 
cost-shifting due to underutilization (good for existing consumers). 
• Or, expansion rate obligations could be reallocated annually as additional 
customers interconnect to the same facilities, reducing the cost burden borne by any 
individual participant over time.23   
In response to the FirstEnergy Whitepaper, Maven Solutions argues that FirstEnergy’s 
proposed solution is an end-run to maximize the amount of utility plant on which FirstEnergy, and 
other similarly situated transmission owners, can earn a return of and on the investment in 
incremental expansion facilities.24 
 
22 Id., App’x A at 5. 
23 Id. 
24 Comments of Maven Solutions, Docket No. RM26-4 (filed June 8, 2026) at 5-6.  

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
 
III. 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF JCA’S SUPPLEMENTAL COMMENTS 
The Commission should adopt the Expansion Rate Policy set forth in the FirstEnergy 
Whitepaper for incremental network upgrades, because it (1) presents a practical and legally 
acceptable pathway to ensure just and reasonable rates for all consumers in light of the rapid onset 
of voluminous interconnections of hyperscale data center large loads to the interstate transmission 
system; and (2) would be the lynchpin to effectuating the Ratepayer Protection Pledge25 as to 
interstate transmission wires charges for incremental network upgrades, especially for network 
upgrades built as part of Supplemental Projects.26 In the Ratepayer Protection Pledge, prominent 
 
25 The White House, Ratepayer Protection Pledge, March 4, 2026, available at 
https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2026/03/ratepayer-protection-pledge/;  The White House, Fact Sheet: President 
Donald J. Trump Advances Energy Affordability with the Ratepayer Protection Pledge, March 4, 2026, available at 
https://www.whitehouse.gov/fact-sheets/2026/03/fact-sheet-president-donald-j-trump-advances-energy-affordability-
with-the-ratepayer-protection-pledge/. 
26 Supplemental Projects are defined in the PJM Operating Agreement as:  
[A] transmission expansion or enhancement that is not required for compliance with the following 
PJM criteria: system reliability, operational performance or economic criteria, pursuant to a 
determination by the Office of the Interconnection and is not a state public policy project pursuant 
to Operating Agreement, Schedule 6, section 1.5.9(a)(ii). Any system upgrades required to maintain 
the reliability of the system that are driven by a Supplemental Project are considered part of that 
Supplemental Project and are the responsibility of the entity sponsoring that Supplemental Project.  
 
PJM OA § 1.42A.02. 
 
Supplemental Projects are planned and executed subject to PJM OATT Attachment M-3 to address one or more of the 
following planning criteria: 
1.  
NERC Reliability Standards (which includes Applicable Regional Entity reliability 
standards); 
2. 
Individual Transmission Owner planning criteria as filed in FERC Form No. 715 and 
posted on the PJM website, provided that the Additional Procedures for the Identification 
and Planning of EOL Needs, set forth in section (d), shall apply, as applicable; 
3. 
Criteria to address economic constraints in accordance with section 1.5.7 of the Operating 
Agreement or an agreement listed in Schedule 12-Appendix B; 
4.  
State Agreement Approach expansions or enhancements in accordance with section 
1.5.9(a)(ii) of the Operating Agreement; or 
5.  
An expansion or enhancement to be addressed by the RTEP Planning Process pursuant to 
section (d)(2) of this Attachment M-3 in accordance with RTEP Planning Process 
procedures in Schedule 6 of the Operating Agreement. 
PJM OATT, Attach. M-3 § (a). 

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
 
hyperscale data center developers promised to “pay for all new power delivery infrastructure 
upgrades required to service their data centers, including adequate network upgrade costs to ensure 
that these expenses are not passed on to the ordinary household.”27 The Expansion Rate Policy 
would effectuate that promise by requiring the large load customer seeking new transmission 
capacity to execute a long-term precedent agreement with the transmission owner obligating the 
customer to pay distinct charges: first, its pro-rata share of the embedded costs rate for the existing 
transmission system; and second, an incremental expansion rate specifically designed to recover 
the costs of the new expansion facilities required to serve that customer.28 Such an agreement 
would align well with the principle of cost causation and avoid having existing customers subsidize 
the costs of network facilities from which existing customers derive no benefit commensurate to 
the benefits that large load interconnecting customers derive.29 
FirstEnergy advocates for this two-part rate structure based on a similar existing rate policy 
that FERC applies for interstate natural gas pipelines.30 In the interstate natural gas framework, the 
Commission has developed an incremental pricing policy to “provide sufficient protection for 
captive customers and formally adopted incremental pricing as the default approach for new 
expansion projects.”31 Recent appellate decisions have affirmed the Commission’s determination 
that the principle of cost causation can be used to assign expansion-related costs to the 
 
27 Ratepayer Protection Pledge (Mar. 4, 2026), available at: https://www.whitehouse.gov/releases/2026/03/ratepayer-
protection-pledge/.  
28 Comments of FirstEnergy, Docket No. RM26-4 (June 5, 2026), App’x A at 5-6.  
29 Id., App’x A at 4 (citing Gas Transmission Northwest LLC v. FERC, 157 F.4th 674 (5th Cir. 2025); Antero Resources 
Corp. v. FERC, 156 F.4th 654 (D.C. Cir. 2025)). 
30 Id.  
31 Id., App’x A at 4 (citing 88 FERC ¶ 61,227, Docket No. PL99-3-000 (Sept. 15, 1999)).  

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 
 
interconnecting customer rather than imposing such costs on native customers who derive no 
corresponding benefit from the network upgrades.32 
 The Commission can adopt the Expansion Rate Policy and apply it to incremental 
transmission network upgrades notwithstanding any distinctions between interstate pipeline and 
interstate transmission facilities. The Commission authorizes expansion facility rates for an 
interstate natural gas pipeline if it demonstrates “that rolling in the costs associated with the 
construction and operation of new facilities will not result in existing customers subsidizing the 
expansion.”33 The network benefits associated with additional marginal capacity on both an 
interstate natural gas pipeline system and a high voltage regional transmission grid are, to a large 
extent, presumed to inure to all interconnected customers.34 The primary focus of the inquiry across 
both industry frameworks is the same: would rolled-in rate treatment force existing customers to 
subsidize the construction of expansion facilities? The answer is “yes” for large load customers 
interconnecting to the high voltage transmission grid under FERC’s existing policy of charging the 
higher of either rolled-in ratemaking treatment (as expanded) or incremental expansion rates.35  
To be clear, rolled-in-rate treatment would force existing customers to subsidize the 
construction of expansion facilities. At the same time, requiring large loads to only pay an 
incremental rate for the interconnection, as the WIRES Whitepaper emphasizes, results in native 
 
32 Id., App’x A at 4 (citing Gas Transmission Northwest LLC v. FERC, 157 F.4th 674 (5th Cir. 2025); Antero Resources 
Corp. v. FERC, 156 F.4th 654 (D.C. Cir. 2025)). 
33 See, e.g., ANR Pipeline Co., 171 F.E.R.C. P61,233, ¶ 21 (2020) vacated on other grounds ANR Pipeline Co., 180 
F.E.R.C. P 61119 (2022) 
34 See Old Dominion Elec. Coop. v. FERC, 898 F.3d 1254, 1260-61 (D.C. Cir. 2018) (finding that regional high voltage 
transmission grids have significant benefits both at the regional and at the local level); see also Antero, 156 F4th at 
661-62 (“When the [natural gas interstate] system is operating below pre-expansion capacity, the expansion facilities 
do not generate any additional costs and at times even generate cost savings.”).  
35 See Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC, 193 F.E.R.C. P61,237, ¶¶ 16-18 (2025) (rejecting a utility’s proposal for 
incremental cost treatment due to a lack of cost support). 

--- PAGE 9 ---
9 
 
customers paying more, no matter what.36 An incremental rate under a strict application of the 
Commission’s “higher-of” policy may insulate native load from near-term harms, but it deprives 
native load of the long-term rate benefits from new large load customers.37  
In short, a strict application of FERC’s “higher of” policy no longer protects native 
customers from expansion-related costs, as it was initially intended.38 Indeed, current cost 
structures require existing customers to unduly bear short-term costs and long-term costs and risks 
due to (1) the unique load ramping characteristics of data center large loads,39 and (2) the execution 
of electric service agreements that fall far short of the life of installed transmission assets.40 
Incremental pricing alone – where the large load pays for expansion facilities – results in large 
load customers avoiding the embedded cost of service for existing infrastructure, even though 
those facilities benefit the large load customer.41 Immense opportunity exists to benefit existing 
transmission customers through large load customers’ paying their share of embedded costs 
transmission rates, offsetting already high transmission rates.   
Given the above, the JCA respectfully request that the Commission consider and adopt the 
Expansion Rate Policy, as articulated by the FirstEnergy Whitepaper, for network upgrades, 
especially for network upgrades built as part of Supplemental Projects.  
 
36 Comments of WIRES, Docket No. RM26-4 (Mar. 30, 2026), App’x A at 19-20.  
37 Compare NorthWestern Corp., 147 FERC P61,171, ¶ 53 (2014) (“a public utility may charge the higher of: (1) an 
average-cost transmission rate reflecting the average cost of the transmission grid, including the costs of expanding 
the grid, or (2) an incremental-cost transmission rate reflecting the costs of the particular service involved”) with 
Comments of WIRES, RM26-4 (Mar. 30, 2026), App’x A at 15 (residential bills increase under embedded or up-front 
CIAC compensation structures). 
38 Pa. Elec. Co., 60 F.E.R.C. P61,034, 61,126-27 (1992). 
39 For example, if a transmission owner must construct facilities to meet a large load customer’s maximum anticipated 
peak demand of 1,000 megawatts (MW), but that customer will not reach that peak for five years, native load  is forced 
to subsidize the capacity associated with the customer’s maximum anticipated peak demand until such time as that 
demand is reached, resulting in unjust and unreasonable rates.  
40 WIRES Supplemental Comments, App’x A at 2 (graphically depicting the long-term risks shifted to native load 
customers).  
41 Duke Energy Carolinas, ¶ 18.  

--- PAGE 10 ---
10 
 
IV. 
SUPPLEMENTAL COMMENTS 
A. 
Summary of FERC’s existing “higher of” rate policy. 
The Commission has adopted a “higher-of” policy for high voltage transmission network 
upgrades:  
Under the Commission’s transmission pricing guidelines, a public utility may 
charge the higher of: (1) an average-cost transmission rate reflecting the average 
cost of the transmission grid, including the costs of expanding the grid, or (2) an 
incremental-cost transmission rate reflecting the costs of the particular service 
involved.”). The “higher of” policy effectuates the Commission’s prohibition 
against “and” pricing, under which “the utility is not entitled to charge for both the 
incremental costs of the grid expansion ‘and’ the embedded costs of the grid.”42 
The Commission has a long-standing policy regarding cost allocation for transmission 
customers subject to a zonal rate design, that “customers located in each zone pay rates based on 
the cost of the transmission facilities located in that zone.”43 Further, that “any degree of integration 
in the transmission network is sufficient to establish that a facility is a network facility and that its 
costs must be rolled into transmission rates and not directly assigned to specific customers.”44 The 
Commission has referred to this as a “presumption” of benefit to the entire system.45 Under this 
framework, the Commission has traditionally examined “the distribution of benefits, not the 
original impetus for the project” to ensure compliance with the cost causation principle.46 Though 
the JCA acknowledge that the Commission has previously considered and rejected a proposal to 
consider network benefits on a customer-by-customer basis,47 this presumption does not hold 
under the anticipated size and characteristics of new large load customers. 
 
42 NorthWestern Corp., 147 FERC P61,171, ¶ 53 (2014)(emphasis in the original). 
43 Neb. Pub. Power Dist. v. FERC, 957 F.3d 932, 935 (8th Cir. 2020); Paragould, 144 F.4th at 299-95.  
44 Cty. of Anaheim, 113 F.E.R.C. P61,091, ¶ 34 (2005). 
45 Midwest ISO Transmission Owners v. FERC, 373 F.3d 1361, 1369-70 (D.C. Cir. 2004) (citing Entergy Services v. 
FERC, 319 F.3d 536, 543 (D.C. Cir. 2003)).  
46 Coal. of MISO Transmission Customers v. FERC, 45 F.4th 1004, 1019 (D.C. Cir. 2022).  
47 Paragould Light & Water Comm’n v. FERC, 144 F.4th 287 (D.C. Cir. 2025).  

--- PAGE 11 ---
11 
 
Under “[t]he Commission’s long-standing policy [which] ‘favors a roll-in of rates on 
integrated transmission systems, absent special circumstances,’”48 the Commission has the 
flexibility to determine when special circumstances exist to provide exceptions to this principle. 
B. 
FERC should adopt the Expansion Rate Policy for incremental network 
upgrades caused by large load interconnections and doing so may not require 
a rate policy change. 
The WIRES Whitepaper shows how the current “higher of” rate policy to meet the needs 
of new large load interconnections is insufficient and presumes that there will be no change in 
policy. TAPS argues that a new rate policy is needed and well within FERC’s discretion “[g]iven 
the new and unique challenges posted by large load interconnections due to their size, rapid pace 
of development, and the enormous stranded cost risks they post to other customers.”49  
While FERC certainly has the discretion to change its rate policy in these circumstances, 
it may not need to. Under its existing rate policy, the Commission has the flexibility to determine 
when special circumstances exist50 to provide exceptions to the “higher of” rate policy. Special 
circumstances exist today due to the high volume of large load customers seeking to interconnect 
to the transmission system and the speed to power demanded by them, requiring significant 
network facilities to be constructed near immediately. These are special circumstances which 
require a tailored, flexible approach that is not narrowly constrained by a presumption of system-
wide benefits.  
 
48 Mun. Energy Agency v. P.S.C., 190 F.E.R.C. P61,158, ¶ 9 (2025) (quoting Buckeye Power, Inc. v. Am. Transmission 
Sys., Inc., Opinion No. 533, 148 FERC P 61,174, at P 12 (2014), order on reh’g, 151 FERC P 61,091 (2015)) aff’g 
Mun. Energy Agency v. P.S.C., 189 F.E.R.C. P61,099 (2024) (emphasis added).  
49 Id. at 10.  
50 See supra n. 48.  

--- PAGE 12 ---
12 
 
A broader view of how the benefits of expansion facilities are spread would enable greater 
flexibility to protect native load/existing customers.51 A majority of local transmission facility 
investment (i.e., Supplemental Projects) to connect and serve new large loads – though nominally 
providing system benefits to existing users52 – is not efficient or cost effective for existing 
customers. These upgrades distribute more harm than benefit to existing customers, similar to the 
D.C. Circuit’s holding in Gas Transmission Nw.53 In the natural gas context, the appellate courts 
have affirmed the Commission’s rejection of rolled-in treatment for interstate natural gas 
expansion facilities that are caused by an incremental customer interconnections and do not accrue 
additional marginal benefits to existing customers.54 
To illustrate further by using a hypothetical, if a transmission utility requested authorization 
to build a new switchyard and high voltage transmission lines connecting that switchyard to one 
or more existing substations, but where the existing infrastructure is operable and in good condition 
– and does not experience and is not forecasted to experience – reliability violations, then the utility 
should not be permitted to build that infrastructure. Put simply, this hypothetical scenario is best 
described as “gold plating,” and provides only de minimis, cost ineffective marginal value to the 
utility’s transmission customers.55 However, this hypothetical is representative of the fact patterns 
created by large load customer interconnections where, but-for the large load customer’s 
interconnection, there would be no reliability violations requiring new infrastructure. Furthermore, 
 
51 See Ill. Commerce Comm’n, 576 F.3d at 476 (“‘a claim of generalized system benefits is not enough’”) (quoting 
Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corp., 112 F.E.R.C. P 61,170, 61,924-61,925 (2005)).  
52 See Mansfield Mun. Elec. Dept. v.  New England Power Co., 97 FERC ¶ 61,134, 61,613-14 (2001), order on reh’g, 
98 FERC ¶ 61,115 (2002). 
53 Gas Transmission Nw., 157 F.4th 674, 704 (5th Cir. 2025).  
54 Id.   
55 Cf. Ill. Commerce Comm’n v. FERC, 576 F.3d 470, 477 (7th Cir. 2009) (“No doubt there will be some benefit to the 
midwestern utilities just because the network is a network, and there have been outages in the Midwest. But enough 
of a benefit to justify the costs that FERC wants shifted to those utilities?”) (emphasis in original).  

--- PAGE 13 ---
13 
 
the new large load customer may monopolize the incremental transmission capacity needed to 
serve them, meaning that the new pathway for electricity that ought to provide reliability and 
operational benefits is consumed by the large load customer’s interconnection.56  
Importantly, the cost causation principle applies when, “without the expectation of [a 
customer’s] contributions the facilities might not have been built, or might have been delayed.”57 
In short, “but-for” the new customer’s interconnection, the facilities might not have been built or 
have been delayed to continue to reliably serve existing customers. Where a large load customer’s 
interconnection to the transmission system is the “but for” cause for system expansion and/or 
network upgrades, native load does not cause the need for such expansion facilities and nothing 
indicates that their payment of these incremental costs is necessary to ensure construction of the 
expansion facilities in a reasonable amount of time. The Ratepayer Protection Pledge seeks “to 
ensure that these expenses are not passed on to the ordinary household.”58 The cost assurance 
provided under the Ratepayer Protection Pledge is a strong indication that the largest data center 
developers – key drivers of the growth in network expansion facilities – necessitate and can support 
direct assignment of the costs of the transmission network upgrades without requiring native 
customers to pay for such costs. The Commission’s adoption of the Expansion Rate Policy would 
be the lynchpin to effectuating the Ratepayer Protection Pledge as to incremental network 
upgrades.59  
 
56 By way of an analogy, this is as if an interstate highway was constructed – paid for by taxpayers nation-wide – 
where the only exit was into the parking lot of a business. See also Paragould Light & Water Comm’n v. FERC, 144 
F.4th 287, 294-95 (D.C. Cir. 2025) (providing that the Commission can consider unquantifiable system benefits).  
57 Ill. Commerce Comm’n, 576 F.3d at 476.  
58 Ratepayer Protection Pledge (Mar. 4, 2026), available at: https://www.whitehouse.gov/releases/2026/03/ratepayer-
protection-pledge/.  
59 Infra, Sec. II.C.  

--- PAGE 14 ---
14 
 
Under the Commission’s transmission pricing policy statement, the Commission 
specifically endorsed the use of disaggregated incremental pricing and embedded pricing:  
The flexibility that we endorse in this Policy Statement regarding cost 
disaggregation, among other things, addresses the industry’s underlying concerns 
regarding “or” pricing. That is, while we cannot justify pricing that purports to 
recover two measures of a single cost, allowing the entity to account for costs on a 
disaggregated basis would permit separate pricing for separate facilities or small 
groupings of facilities. Hence, we would entertain proposals for flow-based line-
by-line “or” pricing. This would permit the use of embedded costs for some lines 
when this is the higher of embedded or incremental costs, and the use of incremental 
cost for other lines when this is the higher of embedded or incremental costs.60 
The Commission has recently approved a pricing structure which utilized “and” pricing.61  
 
The Expansion Rate Policy articulated the FirstEnergy Whitepaper is consistent with the 
Commission’s Transmission Pricing Policy.62 The Commission’s Transmission Pricing Policy 
clearly provides that the use of a disaggregated approach is “or” pricing because it does not charge 
the same customer for the same facilities twice.63 Because a line-by-line incremental rate would 
exclude the expansion transmission facilities from the embedded network rate base, the large load 
customer would be charged once for using the expansion facilities (via the incremental rate) and 
once for using the existing transmission network (via the embedded rate).64 Hence, there is no 
violation of the prohibition against “and” pricing.65 
 
60 Inquiry Concerning the Commission’s Pricing Policy for Transmission Services Provided by Public Utilities Under 
the Federal Power Act, 69 FERC P61,086, n. 34 (1994) (Transmission Pricing Policy). The Commission clarified: 
“Under a line-by-line pricing method, the costs of each transmission line, or segment, are allocated to individual 
transmission transactions, based on the usage each transaction makes of each line or segment.” Id. at n. 30.  
61 See Public Serv. Co., 175 F.E.R.C. P61,111, ¶ 64 (2021) (“The Commission has established that embedded and 
incremental pricing models can be used simultaneously for related projects. Leeward states that it opposes the ‘mixing 
and matching’ of incremental and embedded pricing. However, in the Transmission Pricing Policy Statement, the 
Commission embraced a flexible approach to cost disaggregation and specifically noted that line-by-line ‘or’ pricing 
is permissible. The Commission stated such proposals ‘would permit the use of embedded costs for some lines when 
this is the higher of embedded or incremental costs, and the use of incremental cost for other lines when this is the 
higher of embedded or incremental costs.’”) modified on other grounds Public Serv. Co., 177 F.E.R.C. P61,094 (2021).  
62 See supra n. 60. 
63 NorthWestern Corp., ¶ 53. 
64 NorthWestern Corp., ¶ 53.  
65 Compare with Maven Solutions Supplemental Comments, RM26-4 (June 8, 2026) at 4-5.  

--- PAGE 15 ---
15 
 
C. 
If a rate policy change is required, FERC can and should adopt a change.  
 
If FERC concludes that adopting the Expansion Rate Policy necessitates a change in rate 
policy, FERC certainly can and should do so. As FirstEnergy argued, the strict prohibition on “and 
pricing” is FERC policy, not an appellate court-imposed rule. Appellate courts have addressed the 
“and pricing” prohibition by saying that “all transmission service…must be provided at a just and 
reasonable rate” but they have not categorically adopted a rule requiring FERC to apply the 
prohibition.66 As TAPS argued, the standard for FERC to depart from a past policy is not an 
especially high bar: it suffices that the new policy is permissible under the statute, that there are 
good reasons for it, and that the agency believes it to be better, which the conscious change of 
course adequately indicates.67  
The bar is met here. As FirstEnergy states, an incremental transmission rate for facilities to 
interconnect and serve new large load customers “would require neither statutory change nor a 
novel assertion of agency authority.”68 Moreover, there is good reason for it, it will be better for 
consumers, and it will be a conscious change of approach. Indeed, the high volume of large load 
customers seeking to interconnect to the transmission system and the speed to power demanded 
by them, require significant network facilities to be constructed near immediately. At the same 
time, current cost structures require existing customers to unduly bear short-term costs and long-
term costs and risks due to (1) the unique load ramping characteristics of data center large loads,69 
 
66 FirstEnergy Supplemental Comments, App’x A at 4, 6. 
67 TAPS Supplemental Comments at 9-10 (citing Southwest Airlines Co. v. FERC, 926 F.3d 851, 856 (D.C. Cir. 2019) 
(quoting FCC v. Fox Television Stations, Inc., 556 U.S. 502, 515 (2009)).   
68 FirstEnergy Supplemental Comments, App’x A at 5.  
69 For example, if a transmission owner must construct facilities to meet a large load customer’s maximum anticipated 
peak demand of 1,000 megawatts (MW), but that customer will not reach that peak for five years, native load  is forced 
to subsidize the capacity associated with the customer’s maximum anticipated peak demand until such time as that 
demand is reached, resulting in unjust and unreasonable rates.  

--- PAGE 16 ---
16 
 
and (2) the execution of electric service agreements that fall far short of the life of installed 
transmission assets.70 These are special circumstances which require a rate policy change.  
If FERC decides to change its rate policy, it should not adopt the credit mechanism 
advanced by TAPS and Harvard ELI71 over the Expansion Rate Policy for incremental network 
upgrades built as part of Supplemental Projects. When compared with the Expansion Rate Policy, 
such a mechanism would fall short of meeting the objective of Ratepayer Protection Pledge for 
data center developers to pay the full cost of network upgrades required to serve them.72 To the 
extent that the Commission finds some merit in a crediting mechanism concept, the Commission 
should consider for Supplemental Projects the structure advanced by FirstEnergy which would 
include an annual reallocation of expansion rate obligations as additional customers interconnect 
to the same facilities, reducing the cost burden borne by any individual participant over time.73   
Where incremental network upgrades to accommodate a customer interconnection are 
involved, the Expansion Rate Policy maximizes benefits to existing customers without shifting 
unnecessary risks.74 
D. 
The Expansion Rate Policy can apply to incremental network upgrades built 
as part of Supplemental Projects, although the rate policy may have useful 
application for RTEP facilities and further consideration is warranted there. 
The FirstEnergy Whitepaper does not specifically state whether it would apply to local or 
regional transmission facilities.75 Impliedly, the FirstEnergy Whitepaper advocates for an 
Expansion Rate Policy for local expansion transmission facilities, by way of its reference to a zonal 
 
70 WIRES Supplemental Comments, App’x A at 2 (graphically depicting the long-term risks shifted to native load 
customers).  
71 Id. at 11; Comments of Harvard ELI at 10-12. 
72 Ratepayer Protection Pledge.  
73 FirstEnergy Supplemental Comments, App’A at 5. 
74 Id., App’x A at 3.  
75 Id., App’x A at 5-6.  

--- PAGE 17 ---
17 
 
transmission rate.76 The JCA submit support for the Expansion Rate Policy as it applies at the local 
level for Supplemental Projects.  
The Commission should adopt the Expansion Rate Policy as it will hold native customers 
harmless during system expansions built as Supplemental Projects and, to the extent possible, 
provide benefits to existing customers as a result of the new load interconnection.77 The 
Commission should require transmission owners to adopt a line-by-line incremental pricing 
mechanism for the expansion facilities necessary to interconnect and serve new large load 
customers and ensure that those customers still contribute to the embedded cost of the high voltage 
transmission grid. This paradigm produces the most benefit for native load, without forcing them 
to bear inequitable short- and long-term costs or risks associated with those facilities.  
One key feature of the Expansion Rate Policy is providing a negotiated rate structure for 
the expansion facility rate over the duration of a long-term contract.78 Under the proposal, the 
Commission would impute the same ratemaking assumptions used to derive the embedded 
network transmission rate while depreciating the cost of the facilities over the duration of the 
contract.79 The most critical component is that the cost of the facilities would be depreciated over 
the life of the contract. Under the existing embedded cost framework, the temporary rate relief 
native load customers will see between when the large load customer reaches its maximum 
anticipated peak demand and when the electric service agreement terminates, turns into a 
intergenerational obligation to pay for the incremental facilities over their useful lives; there is no 
 
76 Id. at 5.  
77 Compare Pa. Elec. Co., 60 F.E.R.C. at 61,126 (1992) (“In Penelec’s case, the numbers show that not only will the 
application of the Commission’s ‘or’ condition hold Penelec’s native-load customers harmless, in fact it will benefit 
Penelec’s native load.”) with Antero, 156 F.4th at 662 (“When the system is operating below pre-expansion capacity, 
the expansion facilities do not generate any additional costs and at times even generate cost savings.”). 
78 FirstEnergy Supplemental Comments, App’x A at 5. 
79 Id.  

--- PAGE 18 ---
18 
 
accelerated depreciation which ensures that the large load customer will fully pay for its facilities, 
instead of just contributing to the overall embedded costs.80 
While an Expansion Rate Policy should be considered at the regional level in addition to 
the local level, the JCA recommend that the Commission prioritize such a framework for expansion 
rates to recover the local, zonal costs for facilities needed to connect and serve new large load 
customers.  
Maven Solutions’ Supplemental Comments focuses on Order 1920’s architecture for the 
proposition that transmission upgrades may benefit the regional grid, which is not applicable to 
the incremental network upgrades built as part of Supplemental Projects. At PJM, Order 1000-
based projects are included in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan (RTEP) under PJM’s 
open access transmission tariff and the costs of these projects are allocated on a regional basis,81 
whereas Supplemental Projects are included under Attachment M-3 of the same and allocated 
entirely intra-zonally.82 Attachment M-3 Supplemental Projects are not subject to the same level 
of scrutiny by PJM as RTEP projects,83 but are the types of projects which are designed to meet 
customer needs, such as the interconnection and service of new large load customers, and thus can 
include network upgrade facilities.84  
 
80 WIRES Supplemental Comments, App’x A at 2 (graphically depicting the long-term risks shifted to native load 
customers).  
81 See PJM OATT, Sch. 12.  
82 See PJM OATT, Attach. M-3.  
83 See Monongahela Power Co., 162 F.E.R.C. P61,129, ¶¶ 100-15 (2018) (describing necessary modifications to 
PJM’s Supplemental Project planning processes without requiring full-scope RTEP review of proposed projects).  
84 PJM OATT, Attach. M-3 § (a) (“Each Transmission Owner shall be responsible for planning and constructing in 
accordance with Schedule 6 of the Operating Agreement as provided in this Attachment M-3, to the extent 
applicable…(ii) Supplemental Projects, as defined in section 1.42A.02 of the Operating Agreement”). Under Section 
1.42A.02 of the PJM Operating Agreement, Supplemental Projects are “a transmission expansion or enhancement that 
is not required for compliance with the following PJM criteria: system reliability, operational performance or 
economic criteria, pursuant to a determination by the Office of the Interconnection and is not a state public policy 
project pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 6, section 1.5.9(a)(ii). Any system upgrades required to maintain 
the reliability of the system that are driven by a Supplemental Project are considered part of that Supplemental Project 
and are the responsibility of the entity sponsoring that Supplemental Project.”  

--- PAGE 19 ---
19 
 
That said, the JCA support further consideration of the application of an expansion cost 
structure in the context of RTEP Projects and recognizes that further legal and analytical 
complexity is required. The JCA will address solutions in Comments to the Maryland Office of 
People’s Counsel complaint at docket EL26-63. 
V. 
CONCLUSION 
The Joint Consumer Advocates respectfully request that the Commission consider these 
comments. The Expansion Rate Policy (i.e., expansion plus embedded cost framework) is 
necessary to effectuate and is consistent with cost causation, the Commission’s existing 
Transmission Pricing Policy, and the data center community’s Ratepayer Protection Pledge. 
Therefore, the Joint Consumer Advocates encourage the Commission to affirmatively adopt this 
pricing model to be applicable for new large loads and Supplemental Projects when it determines 
to undertake further action at this docket.  
Counsel for: 
Darryl Lawrence 
Consumer Advocate 
 
Pennsylvania Office of Consumer Advocate 
555 Walnut Street 
5th Floor, Forum Place 
Harrisburg, PA 17101-1923 
717-783-5048 
 
Dated: June 15, 2026  
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
/s/ Melanie Joy El Atieh   
Melanie Joy El Atieh 
Deputy Consumer Advocate  
PA Attorney ID # 209323 
MElAtieh@paoca.org 
 
Jacob Guthrie 
Assistant Consumer Advocate 
PA Attorney ID # 334367 
JGuthrie@paoca.org 
 
Josiah Harmar 
Assistant Consumer Advocate 
PA Attorney ID # 338426 
JHarmar@paoca.org 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 20 ---
20 
 
 
 
 
 
Counsel for: 
Delaware Division of the Public Advocate  
Jameson A.L. Tweedie, Public Advocate 
 
Dated: June 15, 2026 
 
 
/s/ David Crumplar  
David Crumplar (DE Bar ID No. 5876) 
Deputy Attorney General 
820 N. French St., 6th Floor 
Wilmington, DE 19801 
Phone:  302-577-8400 
David.Crumplar@delaware.gov 
Attorneys for the New Jersey Division of Rate 
Counsel 
 
Dated: June 15, 2026 
 
 
 
 
BRIAN O. LIPMAN, DIRECTOR  
DIVISION OF RATE COUNSEL  
 
 
/s/   Brian O. Lipman 
Brian O. Lipman, Director 
T. David Wand, Esq. 
Robert Glover, Esq. 
Division of Rate Counsel 
140 East Front Street 4th Floor 
P.O. Box 003 
Trenton, N.J. 08625 
Phone:  (609) 984-1460 
Fax:  609-292-2923 
 
 
