--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads 
) 
to the 
)  
Docket No.         RM26-4-000 
Interstate Transmission System 
) 
 
 
REPLY COMMENTS OF THE  
PENNSYLVANIA OFFICE OF CONSUMER ADVOCATE,  
DELAWARE DIVISION OF THE PUBLIC ADVOCATE,  
AND THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS BY THE OFFICE OF THE 
ILLINOIS ATTORNEY GENERAL 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
 
 
Table of Contents 
I. 
INTRODUCTION .................................................................................................................. 1 
II. 
SUMMARY OF REPLY COMMENTS ................................................................................. 2 
III. 
REPLY COMMENTS ......................................................................................................... 4 
A. 
FERC should adopt a cooperative federalism model to govern large load 
interconnections, curtailments, and transmission cost allocations. ............................................ 4 
1. 
FERC should adopt a cooperative federalism model that preserves existing state 
jurisdiction. ............................................................................................................................. 4 
2. 
FERC should clarify curtailment protocols within a cooperative federalism 
paradigm because data center load growth may necessitate curtailments, and 
curtailments should protect current customers over new large data center load 
customers that cause resource inadequacy. ............................................................................. 6 
B. 
Given the unique issues that large loads create for grid reliability, treating new large 
loads differently from other load is reasonable and necessary to ensure reliable service 
and just and reasonable rates for existing consumers, especially residential consumers. .......... 8 
C. 
Definition of Large Load and Hybrid Facilities.................................................................11 
D. 
Interconnection Studies and Network Upgrade Cost Allocation for Large Loads and 
Hybrid Facilities ....................................................................................................................... 14 
1. 
FERC should build on FERC Order 2023 by continuing to streamline processes 
that factor hybrid facilities jointly in the interconnection study. .......................................... 14 
2. 
FERC should approach injection and withdrawal rights according to grid-
protective assumptions that prevent free-riding and regulatory evasion. ............................. 15 
3. 
FERC and PJM should facilitate expedited interconnection studies of large loads 
and hybrid facilities that agree to be meaningfully curtailable or dispatchable.................... 16 
4. 
FERC should ensure that large loads and hybrid facilities pay fully for their 
network upgrade costs without unjustly burdening residential ratepayers and all other 
grid users. .............................................................................................................................. 18 
IV. 
CONCLUSION ................................................................................................................. 25 
 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
1 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads 
) 
to the 
)  
Docket No.         RM26-4-000 
Interstate Transmission System 
) 
 
 
REPLY COMMENTS OF THE  
PENNSYLVANIA OFFICE OF CONSUMER ADVOCATE, 
DELAWARE DIVISION OF THE PUBLIC ADVOCATE,  
AND THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS BY THE OFFICE OF THE  
ILLINOIS ATTORNEY GENERAL 
 
I. 
INTRODUCTION 
 
On November 21, 2025, the Pennsylvania Office of Consumer Advocate (PA OCA) and 
the Delaware Division of the Public Advocate (DE DPA) submitted Joint Comments to the 
Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANOPR) established in the above-captioned docket.1 
The PA OCA represents the interests of Pennsylvania’s residential utility consumers, including 
before the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC or Commission).2 The DE DPA 
represents the interests of Delaware regulated utility consumers, including before FERC.3 The 
Office of the Illinois Attorney General (IL OAG) represents the People of the State of Illinois on 
public utility issues in proceedings before state and federal regulatory agencies and in state and 
federal courts.4  
 
1 See generally, Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Joint Comments of the 
Pennsylvania Office of Consumer Advocate and Delaware Division of the Public Advocate, Docket No. RM26-4-000 
(Nov. 21, 2025). The Office of the Illinois Attorney General filed separate comments.  See RM-26-4-000, Comments 
of the People of the State of Illinois by the Office of the Illinois Attorney General (November 21, 2025). 
2 See 71 P.S. § 309-4 (outlining powers of Consumer Advocate to represent Pennsylvania’s residential utility 
consumers in FERC proceedings and federal courts). 
3 See 29 Del. C. § 8716(e). 
4 See 15 ILCS 205/6.5(d).   

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
2 
 
The PA OCA, DE DPA, and IL OAG (collectively, the Joint Consumer Advocates) 
appreciate the opportunity to submit reply comments and further appreciates the DOE’s and 
FERC’s efforts “to ensure all Americans and domestic industries have access to affordable, 
reliable, and secure electricity.”5  
In submitting these reply comments, the Joint Consumer Advocates aim to protect the 
interests of residential utility consumers by ensuring their access to a reliable and affordable 
regional electricity grid. Residential ratepayers should not suffer unreliable electricity service or 
pay unreasonably high rates for inferior, unreliable grid service as a result of the interconnection 
of large loads that do not offset their demand through the addition of timely, local, and adequate 
capacity resources.6  
II. 
SUMMARY OF REPLY COMMENTS 
FERC should adopt a cooperative federalism model to govern large load interconnections, 
curtailments, and transmission cost allocations that preserves existing state jurisdiction. FERC 
should clarify curtailment protocols within a cooperative federalism paradigm because new large 
load growth may necessitate curtailments, and curtailments should protect current customers, 
especially residential consumers, over new large load customers that cause the resource 
inadequacy. The Joint Consumer Advocates are primarily concerned by the cumulative effect of 
the undisciplined interconnection of new large loads during a time when market conditions indicate 
that there may not be adequate generation capacity to serve all customers reliably.  
 
5 See U.S. Sec’y of Energy, Letter Communicating Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on Large Load 
Interconnection 
(Oct. 
23, 
2025), 
[hereinafter 
ANOPR] 
https://www.energy.gov/sites/default/files/2025-
10/403%20Large%20Loads%20Letter.pdf. 
6 Joint Comments of the Pennsylvania Office of Consumer Advocate and Delaware Division of the Public Advocate, 
at pp. 2-3.   

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
3 
 
Residential consumers, unlike new large loads, have paid capacity market rates for resource 
adequacy, have not contributed to the growing grid resource inadequacy, and are not uniformly 
able to mitigate the impact of curtailments through alternative supply options. To protect 
residential consumers, FERC can and should recognize that RTOs must depart from pro-rata 
transmission curtailment in the rare circumstances where (1) the large loads have caused the 
resource inadequacy; and (2) the RTO (a) has exhausted all of its options for avoiding transmission 
curtailment of customers, and (b) has established that those transmission customers that would be 
disproportionately affected by the curtailment – large loads – have options to reduce their need for 
transmission capacity, including alternative supply options, compensation for demand response, 
or reduced transmission rates for the interruptible service they are provided. 
Given the unique issues that large loads create for grid reliability, treating new large loads 
differently from other load is reasonable and necessary to ensure reliable service and just and 
reasonable rates for existing consumers, especially residential consumers. FERC can and must 
appropriately treat new large loads attributable to data centers differently from other kinds of load 
because: (1) data centers are creating unique difficulties for the grid and impacting a uniquely 
vulnerable market at a uniquely expensive level; and (2) investments in data centers can be 
speculative and uncertain in nature, increasing the risk of a severe market correction that would 
create stranded costs.7 
FERC should stay the course and adopt the proposed 20 MW threshold to define large loads 
and hybrid facilities because this MW threshold helps protect against reliability concerns from 
 
7 See ADVAIT ARUN, BUBBLE OR NOTHING: DATA CENTER PROJECT FINANCE 43-48, 57-58, 60 (Ctr. for Pub. Enter. 
2025), https://publicenterprise.org/report/bubble-or-nothing/ (describing the speculative nature of investment in new 
large data center loads which creates a risk of stranded costs atypical under current market conditions).  

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
4 
 
large loads or hybrid facilities by requiring proper interconnection studies that will reduce 
reliability risks for all electricity consumers. 
Finally, FERC should build on FERC Order 2023 by continuing to streamline processes 
that factor hybrid facilities jointly in the interconnection study. FERC should approach injection 
and withdrawal rights according to grid-protective assumptions that prevent free-riding and 
regulatory evasion. FERC and PJM should facilitate expedited interconnection studies of large 
loads and hybrid facilities that agree to be meaningfully curtailable or dispatchable. FERC should 
ensure that large loads and hybrid facilities pay fully for their network upgrade costs without 
unjustly burdening residential ratepayers and all other grid users. 
III. 
REPLY COMMENTS 
A. 
FERC should adopt a cooperative federalism model to govern large load 
interconnections, curtailments, and transmission cost allocations. 
1. 
FERC should adopt a cooperative federalism model that preserves 
existing state jurisdiction. 
FERC should adopt a cooperative federalism model to facilitate the interconnection of large 
loads as retail customers directly through state jurisdictional facilities to interstate transmission 
systems.8 Such an effort must preserve existing state authority according to the Federal Power Act 
(FPA), as many commenters have emphasized.9 Cooperative federalism plays an important role 
where state action furthers the objectives of the FPA and FERC, despite indirect effects on matters 
 
8 See, e.g., Comments of the Edison Electric Institute, at p. 2 (“The right outcome of this proceeding is a sure-footed 
response by the Commission that acts in concert with ongoing efforts by utilities, states, and ISO/RTOs.”). See also 
Comments of the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners, at p. 6 (“NARUC pledges to engage 
with regulated entities and other stakeholders to explore consensus solutions for FERC’s consideration that will help 
meet national goals for large load interconnection, while avoiding disputes over jurisdiction that would impede 
achieving our shared goals.”). “Working together, under the concept of cooperative federalism, will lead to optimal 
solutions.” Id. 
9 Joint Comments of the Pennsylvania Office of Consumer Advocate and Delaware Division of the Public Advocate , 
at pp. 5-16. See also Comments of the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission, at pp. 4-5, 7; Comments of the 
Organization of PJM States, Inc., at pp. 1-5, 9-10; Comments of the National Association of Regulatory Utility 
Commissioners, at pp. 1-5; Comments of the Edison Electric Institute, at pp. 4, 22-32; Comments of PPL Services 
Corporation, at pp. 8-9; Comments of Governor Josh Shapiro and Governor Glenn Youngkin, at p. 1. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
5 
 
subject to FERC’s jurisdiction, while still expressing an important policy of the state.10 However, 
the Joint Consumer Advocates submit that further clarification is necessary regarding how 
cooperative federalism applies to large load additions.  
Specifically, a regulatory framework of the “floor-not-ceiling” preemption model best suits 
the careful balancing of interests that will enable FERC to achieve its goals and avoid burdensome 
litigation.11 This framework is particularly important for setting federal minimum standards to 
address grid reliability, including resource adequacy.12 These minimum standards must protect 
residential customers13 by effectuating the FPA’s “‘core purposes’ of ‘curb[ing] prices and 
enhanc[ing] reliability in the wholesale electricity market,’”14 while fully preserving state 
regulatory jurisdiction over retail load interconnections and curtailments.15 Such minimum 
standards should take two primary forms: (1) minimum, consumer-protective (pro forma) tariff 
standards, terms, and conditions for Regional Transmission Operators (RTOs)/Independent System 
Operators (ISOs) that will implement large load interconnection queues in coordination with 
transmission owners (TOs) and interconnecting electric distribution companies (EDCs);16 and (2) 
 
10  Elec. Power Supply Ass’n v. Star, 904 F.3d 518, 524 (7th Cir. 2018) (upholding Illinois legislation creating “zero 
emission credit” program); Coal. for Competitive Elec. v. Zibelman, 906 F.3d 41, 51 (2d Cir. 2018) (upholding New 
York legislation creating “zero emission credit” program); Dayton Power & Light Co. v. FERC, 126 F.4th 1107, 
1129-31 (6th Cir. 2025), cert. denied, Nos. 25-1304, 25-1318 (Nov. 10, 2025) (upholding Ohio legislation requiring 
state transmission utilities to join a Regional Transmission Operator).   
11 See Paul S. Weiland, Comment, Federal and State Preemption of Environmental Law: A Critical Analysis, 24 HARV. 
ENVTL. L. REV. 237, 282-83 (2000) (describing Floor-not-Ceiling preemption model in environmental law context). 
12 16 U.S.C. § 824o(i)(3); Planning Res. Adequacy Assessment Reliability Std., 134 F.E.R.C. P61,212, PP 20-26 
(2011).  
13 Comments of the United States Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, at p. 1 (“[T]he Commission 
must ensure that residential customers are not forced to bear the costs of these large-load interconnections.”). 
14 Nat’l Ass’n of Regulatory Util. Comm’rs v. FERC, 964 F.3d 1177, 1186 & n.5 (D.C. Cir. 2020) (quoting FERC v. 
Elec. Power Supply Ass’n, 577 U.S. 260, 273 (2016)). 
15 See Matthew R. Christiansen & Joshua C. Macey, Long Live the Federal Power Act’s Bright Line, 134 HARV. L. 
REV. 1360, 1407-12 (2021) (formulating FPA preemption analysis that includes an objective analysis of “what the 
regulation does, the problem it is supposed to remedy, and the link between them”). 
16 See Initial Comments of PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., at pp. 3-4 (noting that an RTO-administered large load queue 
should not exclude EDCs and TOs from the study and agreement process because they own the necessary facilities 
and have expert knowledge of those facilities).  

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
6 
 
minimum consumer-protective standards, terms, and conditions for jurisdictional aspects of 
contractual agreements and cost allocations, such as transmission security agreements (TSAs)17 
and construction services agreements.18 
2. 
FERC should clarify curtailment protocols within a cooperative 
federalism paradigm because data center load growth may necessitate 
curtailments, and curtailments should protect current customers over new 
large data center load customers that cause resource inadequacy. 
Due to the harmful impact that the undisciplined addition of large loads to regional grids 
has on resource adequacy and grid reliability, FERC and the states should cooperate to ensure that 
the manual shedding of load, to the extent required, allocates the risk caused by such additions 
without unduly discriminating against existing customers or creating unjust and unreasonable 
capacity market paradigms. This is especially so for residential customers, which, unlike new large 
loads, have paid capacity market rates for resource adequacy, have not contributed to the growing 
resource inadequacy, and are not uniformly able to mitigate the impact of curtailments through 
back-up supply options.19   
 
17 See PECO Energy Co., 193 FERC ¶ 61,148 (2025) [hereinafter PECO TSA Order] (Chang, Comm’r, concurring) 
(highlighting customer impacts from massive scope of data-center-focused transmission buildout in PJM and resulting 
need for federal minimum customer protections). “I raise customer protection concerns here because I expect that the 
Commission will increasingly be asked to review one-off agreements purporting to protect customers against 
transmission cost shifts, without a substantive framework for assessing the adequacy of those protections.” Id. at P 6. 
18 See, e.g., Dayton Power & Light,189 FERC ¶ 61,220 at PP 2, 10 (Dec. 20, 2024) (citing Mansfield Mun. Elec. Dep’t 
v. New England Power Co., 97 FERC ¶ 61,134 (2001), reh’g denied, 98 FERC ¶ 61,115 (2002); Ne. Tex. Elec. Coop., 
Inc., 108 FERC ¶ 61,084, at P 48 (2004), reh’g denied, 111 FERC ¶ 61,189 (2005)) (accepting the public utility’s 
assertion that the transmission facilities do not satisfy any of the five criteria under FERC’s Mansfield test to be 
considered as integrated into the transmission provider’s transmission system now or in the future and thus are properly 
treated as direct assignment rather than rolled-in for FERC formula ratemaking purposes). 
19 See Comments of U.S. Congressman Suhas Subramanyam et al., at p. 1 (“[W]e urge FERC to ensure the 
forthcoming rulemaking process fully considers . . . [a]uthorizing utility-administered curtailment protocols during 
grid emergencies.”); but cf. Comments of the People of the State of Illinois by the Office of the Illinois Attorney 
General, at p.11 (raising doubts and questions about this arrangement); see also NERC Reliability Standard EOP-011-
4, 89 Fed. Reg. 13324 (Feb. 22, 2024) (requirement the establishment of regional emergency procedures, including 
for curtailment of load, and requiring that state-jurisdictional distribution providers implement such procedures). 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
7 
 
FERC “has authority to effect orderly curtailment plans involving both direct sales and 
sales for resale.”20 It also “has authority to curtail [transmission] deliveries to all customers in time 
of shortage” without such curtailments interfering with the States’ exclusive authority over retail 
sales.21 Indeed, RTOs have a vital role in allocating and administering curtailments.22  
But how exactly RTOs should administer large load curtailments within a cooperative 
federalism paradigm requires the Commission’s clarification.23 To protect residential customers, 
FERC can and should recognize that RTOs must depart from pro-rata transmission curtailment in 
the rare circumstances where (1) the large loads have caused the resource inadequacy; and (2) the 
RTO has (a) exhausted all of its options for avoiding transmission curtailment of customers, and 
(b) has established that those transmission customers that would be disproportionately affected by 
the curtailment – new large loads – have options to reduce their need for transmission capacity, 
including alternative supply options, compensation for demand response, or reduced transmission 
rates for the interruptible service they are provided.24 
 
20 FPC v. Louisiana Power & Light Co., 406 U.S. 621, 631 (1972). See also Christiansen & Macey, supra note 15, at 
1382 (“[B]ecause the NGA and the FPA distribute jurisdiction between FERC and states in exactly the same way, 
courts have always found that NGA cases are binding precedent in FPA cases and vice versa.” (citations omitted)). 
21 Brief for FERC at 46, New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1 (2002) (Nos. 00-568, 00-809). See also Fed. Power Com. v. 
Hope Nat. Gas Co., 320 U.S. 591, 610 (1944) (“The primary aim of this legislation was to protect consumers against 
exploitation at the hands of natural gas companies.”). 
22 Reg’l Transmission Orgs., Order No. 2000, 89 F.E.R.C. P61,285, 61896 (1999), reaff’d, clarified by, in part, 
reh’g denied by, in part, Reg’l Transmission Orgs., 90 F.E.R.C. P61,201 (2000) (codified at 18 C.F.R. pt. 35); see 
also N. States Power Co. v. FERC, 176 F.3d 1090 (8th Cir. 1999), cert. denied, 528 U.S. 1182 (2000); Brief for 
FERC at 48, New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1 (2002) (Nos. 00-568, 00-809). 
23 See, e.g., Comments of the Organization of PJM States, Inc., at p. 8 (citing 16 U.S.C. 824h) (identifying FPA’s 
explicit authorization of cooperative federalism); see also Comments of U.S. Congressman Suhas Subramanyam et 
al., at p. 1 (“[W]e urge FERC to ensure the forthcoming rulemaking process fully considers . . . [a]uthorizing utility-
administered curtailment protocols during grid emergencies.”). The Congressmembers emphasize “affordability, 
reliability, and fairness.” Id. at p.2. 
24 Brief for FERC at 48-49 & n.24, New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1 (2002) (citing N. States Power Co. (Minn.), 89 
F.E.R.C. ¶ 61,178, at 61,553 (1999)). 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
8 
 
B. 
Given the unique issues that large loads create for grid reliability, treating new 
large loads differently from other load is reasonable and necessary to ensure 
reliable service and just and reasonable rates for existing consumers, 
especially residential consumers. 
FERC and PJM should, when facilitating large load interconnections according to federal 
priorities, make reasonable distinctions, meaning “due” discriminations, about data center load 
because that load has unique characteristics that impact reliability and rates differently from other 
loads.25 In fact, PJM’s initial Critical Issue Fast Path (CIFP) proposal for Large Load Additions 
recognized the need to treat new large loads—nearly all of which are data centers26—differently 
from other loads, by proposing to categorize them as Non-Capacity-Backed Load subject to 
curtailment if they failed to bring their own generation or demand response.27 Although PJM 
dropped the proposal,28 PJM’s Board and Staff introduced the initial proposal with differentiated 
treatment for new large loads because they were looking squarely at the reality that new large data 
center loads seek to interconnect in a regional grid projected to have insufficient capacity to 
provide reliable service to its current customers.29 
 
25 See Comments of the Independent Market Monitor for PJM, Attach. B, at p. 4. 
It has been asserted that requiring large new data center loads to bring their own new generation 
would be discriminatory. The relevant standard for prohibited discrimination is unduly 
discriminatory. It is not unduly discriminatory to identify the class of large data centers and impose 
requirements on that class that match the impact of that class on all other customers. It would be 
unduly discriminatory to all other customers, from the smallest residential customer to the largest 
industrial customer, to allow large data centers to add massive amounts of load to the system that 
cannot be served reliably with resulting price impacts and reliability impacts on those other 
customers. Id. (citing 16 U.S.C. § 824d(b)). 
26 Letter from PJM to PJM Stakeholders (Aug. 8, 2025), https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/about-pjm/who-we-
are/public-disclosures/2025/20250808-pjm-board-letter-re-implementation-of-critical-issue-fast-path-process-for-
large-load-additions.pdf. Of the 32 GW of peak load growth that PJM has forecast for 2024 to 2030, 30 GW come 
from data centers. Id. 
27 See Comments of the Independent Market Monitor for PJM, Attach. A, at pp. 2-3 & n.9. 
28 Ethan Howland, PJM Stakeholders Overwhelmingly Pan Proposal for Data Center Interconnection, Util. Dive 
(Sep. 2, 2025). 
29 Cf. NERC, Industry Recommendation: Large Load Interconnection, Study, Commissioning, & Operations, at 1 
(Sep. 9, 2025), https://www.nerc.com/globalassets/programs/bpsa/alerts/2025/nerc-alert-level-2--large-loads.pdf 
(positing that the “comparatively large size, unique end-use operational characteristics, unique facility design, and 
unique operational performance of Large Loads necessitate enhancements to interconnection processes, BPS planning 
studies and models”); Stu Bresler & Tim Horger, Large Load Additions PJM Conceptual Proposal and Request for 
Member Feedback, PJM (Aug. 18, 2025), https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/committees-groups/cifp-

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
9 
 
PJM’s Independent Market Monitor (IMM) asserts that “[d]ata center load growth is the 
primary reason for recent and expected capacity market conditions, including total forecast load 
growth, the tight supply and demand balance, and high prices.”30 Moreover, in accepting its FERC-
approved temporary price collar, PJM acknowledged that it currently faces “extraordinary 
circumstances . . . including rapid load growth, interconnection queue issues, a compressed auction 
schedule, and significant unhedged load exposure.”31 Despite these unique, worrisome, and 
potentially tragic conditions, data center load insists that PJM and FERC cannot treat these large 
loads differently. But new large loads are different,32 and their effects on the market are different.33 
Google, for example, asserts that “[b]ecause all load is ‘economically marginal’ in the sense 
that customers impose equivalent costs ‘whether by adding or merely continuing their usage’ 
regardless of when they first took service, imposing a requirement on only new load to bring its 
own supply would be unjust and unreasonable and unduly discriminatory.”34 The case that Google 
cites for this proposition, BNP Paribas Energy Trading GP v. FERC, implicitly assumes standard 
additions of load in normal market conditions. In that case, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals 
 
lla/2025/20250818/20250818-item-03---pjm-conceptual-proposal-and-request-for-member-feedback---
presentation.pdf.  
30 Comments of the Independent Market Monitor for PJM, Attach. A, at p. 3. 
31 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 191 FERC ¶ 61,066, at P 15 (2025). 
32 NERC, Industry Recommendation: Large Load Interconnection, Study, Commissioning, & Operations, at 1 (Sep. 
9, 2025), https://www.nerc.com/globalassets/programs/bpsa/alerts/2025/nerc-alert-level-2--large-loads.pdf (positing 
that the “comparatively large size, unique end-use operational characteristics, unique facility design, and unique 
operational performance of Large Loads necessitate enhancements to interconnection processes, BPS planning 
studies and models”). 
33 See PECO TSA Order, 193 FERC ¶ 61,148, at P 4 (2025) (Chang, Comm’r, concurring) (“From a transmission 
perspective, the new load addition paradigm, in which increasing numbers of large, discrete loads interconnect to the 
grid, has the potential to fundamentally alter the pace, amount, and size of new transmission investment.”). 
34 Comments of Google LLC, at p. 11 & n.11 (first citing BNP Paribas Energy Trading GP v. FERC, 743 F.3d 264, 
268-69 (2014); and then citing 1 ALFRED KAHN, THE ECONOMICS OF REGULATION: PRINCIPLES AND INSTITUTIONS 
140 (The MIT Press 1998)).  

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
10 
 
writes that “the cost causation principle generally calls for giving the same treatment to new and 
continuing customers, based on a straightforward economic rationale.”35  
Google implicitly equates data center loads under current market conditions to normal 
loads in normal market conditions. With skyrocketing costs in PJM, the introduction of new large 
loads causes a massive shift in the demand curve, a shift equal to the size of certain RTO markets. 
The BNP Paribas court writes that “[w]here ‘all customers cause the incurrence of the costs . . . , 
whether by adding or merely continuing their usage,’ . . . assignment of the costs to all customers 
(both continuing and new) forces each set ‘to weigh the marginal benefits of the capacity to them 
against the marginal costs they impose on society by continuing to make demands.’”36 This 
analysis of cost causation assumes that “all customers cause the incurrence of the costs,” which 
does not capture the current economic and engineering realities of data centers’ outsized impact 
on costs.37 Furthermore, the BNP Paribas court focuses on cost assignment’s role in causing 
customers “to weigh the marginal benefits of the capacity to them against the marginal costs they 
impose on society by continuing to make demands.”38 This marginal weighing, if it is to account 
for current market conditions,39 should reflect the vast marginal costs that large new data centers 
uniquely impose on other customers due to the necessary buildout of capacity to meet the demands 
 
35 BNP Paribas, 743 F.3d at 268 (emphasis added). 
36 Id. (citations omitted) (citing KAHN, supra note 34, at 140). 
37 Cf. Comments of the Independent Market Monitor for PJM, Attach. A, at p. 3 (“Data center load growth is the 
primary reason for recent and expected capacity market conditions, including total forecast load growth, the tight 
supply and demand balance, and high prices.). 
38 BNP Paribas, 743 F.3d at 268 (citing KAHN, supra note 34, at 140). 
39 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 191 FERC ¶ 61,066, at P 15 (2025) (PJM currently faces “extraordinary circumstances 
. . . including rapid load growth, interconnection queue issues, a compressed auction schedule, and significant 
unhedged load exposure.”). 

--- PAGE 13 ---
 
11 
 
of large loads while providing incumbent customers with adequate, reliable, and affordable 
service.40 
Therefore, the Joint Consumer Advocates encourage FERC to reject a marginal view of 
large load additions. Viewing each large load addition on an individual basis obfuscates the 
cumulative pressure that undisciplined interconnection of large load customers creates. Instead, 
FERC should view through a holistic lens the unique resource adequacy constraint which large 
load additions can create if not properly mitigated. While a single large load addition may not—in 
and of itself—create resource inadequacy, the totality of large load additions will. As a result, due 
to the unique circumstances posed by current market conditions and the potential for the 
undisciplined interconnection of large load customers, the Joint Consumer Advocates urge FERC 
to view these additions on a cumulative basis.   
  Further, new investment in large data center loads can be more speculative than that in 
large loads which have already interconnected to the grid, increasing the risk of a severe market 
correction that creates stranded costs; as a result, FERC and the states must adapt their regulations 
to this new type of customer.41   
C. 
Definition of Large Load and Hybrid Facilities 
In the ANOPR, the second principle for reform provides: 
Second, consistent with the Commission’s pro forma LGIP and LGIA, the reforms 
should only apply to new loads greater than 20 MW and, for hybrid facilities, where 
the load is greater than 20 MW. We seek comment on alternative thresholds, 
including whether such a threshold is necessary at all.42 
 
 
40 Comments of the Independent Market Monitor for PJM, Attach. A, at p. 3 (“Data center load growth is the primary 
reason for recent and expected capacity market conditions, including total forecast load growth, the tight supply and 
demand balance, and high prices.); see also Joint Comments of the Pennsylvania Office of Consumer Advocate and 
Delaware Division of the Public Advocate, at pp. 30-31 (discussing cost causation). 
41 See generally, ARUN, supra note 7, at 43-48, 57-58 (illustrating that investment in new large data center loads can 
be highly speculative, which creates the risk for an increase in stranded costs). 
42 ANOPR, supra note 5, at P 19.  

--- PAGE 14 ---
 
12 
 
Several commenters assert that the 20 MW threshold for either new loads or hybrid 
facilities is too low, arguing that it will clog interconnection queues and reduce opportunities for 
streamlining the interconnection of these facilities.43 
The Joint Consumer Advocates disagree.44 The ANOPR definition applies to new large 
load and hybrid facilities and therefore would not apply to commercial and industrial loads already 
connected to lower voltage transmission lines.45  
Other commenters indicate concern with new facilities that are between 20 MW and their 
proposed threshold (e.g., 100 MW46 or 200 MW47). They provide no evidence, however, that their 
threshold avoids their concern with “clogging” interconnection queues. The PJM Transmission 
Owners point out that the trend is towards larger data centers, for which they claim a bottom 
threshold of at least 200 MW.48 If this is the case, then a lower threshold would not add that many 
more data centers, and a 200 MW threshold would not substantially reduce the number.  
Most importantly, as the Joint Consumer Advocates pointed out in their Initial Joint 
Comments, NERC’s definition of large loads does not include a minimum size.49 If the threshold 
here must numerically express a minimum quantity of power units, a lower MW threshold helps 
protect against reliability concerns from large loads or hybrid facilities that are below the threshold, 
including in the event that entities structure their facilities to attempt to avoid regulatory 
 
43 Comments of FirstEnergy Service Company, p. 4. 
44 See Joint Comments of the Pennsylvania Office of Consumer Advocate and Delaware Division of the Public 
Advocate, pp. 16-17; see also Comments of the Ohio Consumers’ Counsel, p. 8. 
45 “Other proposals in the ANOPR may need more development. For example, the proposal to assert jurisdiction to 
all loads down to 20 MW risks overshooting the mark. This low threshold would bring in not just large data centers 
connecting to the high voltage bulk electric system, but also snare many longstanding commercial and industrial 
loads connected to lower voltage transmission lines.” Comments of PPL Services Corporation, p. 2. 
46 Comments of the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission, p. 9. 
47 Comments of FirstEnergy Service Company, p. 2; Comments of the Indicated PJM Transmission Owners, p. 7. 
48 Comments of the Indicated PJM Transmission Owners, p. 7. 
49 Joint Comments of the Pennsylvania Office of Consumer Advocate and Delaware Division of the Public 
Advocate, pp. 16-17. 

--- PAGE 15 ---
 
13 
 
requirements. On the other hand, quickly interconnecting large loads and hybrid facilities without 
conducting proper interconnection studies will impose reliability risks on all electricity consumers 
including existing and prospective large load customers. 
The PA PUC correctly points out that the ANOPR does not consider an aggregate threshold 
for defining large loads and hybrid facilities.50 The Joint Consumer Advocates reiterate their 
position on this issue that the threshold “should apply to the customer’s aggregate power 
requirement rather than to a single point of interconnection.”51 Studying aggregate power 
requirements, as well as necessary transmission upgrades for the interconnection of large loads, 
would be similar to the methodology transmission operators currently employ to study a “cluster” 
of generation interconnections which was standardized in FERC Order 2023.52  
The PJM Transmission Owners note that many loads “are significantly lower when they 
first enter commercial operation, but following expansion and full potential of operation capacity, 
their demand increase to much higher levels.”53 The definition of large load and hybrid facilities 
should use the planned full operational capacity, even if the facility is planning to ramp up its 
operations over time. Otherwise, a new large load or hybrid facility could circumvent the threshold 
requirement by phasing in its operations.  
 
50 Comments of the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission, p. 9. 
51 Joint Comments of the Pennsylvania Office of Consumer Advocate and Delaware Division of the Public 
Advocate, p. 17. If there is no aggregate limit and the threshold is 200 MW, then, for example, a group of five, 199 
MW new loads operated by a single entity at the same location, could avoid the large load interconnection 
requirements. 
52 See Improvements to Generator Interconnection Proc. & Agreements, Order No. 2023, 184 F.E.R.C. ¶ 61,054, P 
177 (July 28, 2023) modified by Improvements to Generator Interconnection Proc. & Agreements, Order No. 2023-
A, 186 F.E.R.C. ¶ 61,199, PP 73-79 (Mar. 21, 2024).  
53 Comments of the Indicated PJM Transmission Owners, p. 9. 

--- PAGE 16 ---
 
14 
 
D. 
Interconnection Studies and Network Upgrade Cost Allocation for Large 
Loads and Hybrid Facilities 
1. 
FERC should build on FERC Order 2023 by continuing to streamline 
processes that factor hybrid facilities jointly in the interconnection study. 
In the ANOPR, the third principle for reform provides: 
Third, to the extent practicable, load and hybrid facilities should be studied together 
with generating facilities. Such an approach will allow for efficient siting of loads 
and generating facilities and thereby minimize the need for costly network 
upgrades. For example, siting a large load near or at the same point of 
interconnection as a new generating facility could reduce the network upgrades 
needed to interconnect only the load or only the generating facility.54 
 
 
In the Initial Joint Comments, the Joint Consumer Advocates supported methods to reduce 
generation interconnection study times and studying load and hybrid facilities to reduce the need 
for costly network upgrades, “provided that the interconnection study process is comprehensive 
and technically sound.”55 
 
Commenters that plan and operate the power system and wholesale electricity markets 
raised similar concerns as the Joint Consumer Advocates and are cautious regarding the ANOPR’s 
asserted benefits of joint interconnection studies. PJM states:  
Further, if PJM understands the ANOPR correctly, the proposed reforms appear to 
signal an openness to a less-reliable planning paradigm for new generation facilities 
(see, e.g., Principles 3 and 5) where hybrid facilities involving ‘new generation 
facilities’ are studied based solely on injection and/or withdrawal rights requested, 
and large loads and hybrid facilities that agree to be curtailable will have their 
studies expedited so that such facilities can be put into operation with greater 
speed.56  
 
54 ANOPR, supra note 5, at P 20.  
55 Joint Comments of the Pennsylvania Office of Consumer Advocate and Delaware Division of the Public 
Advocate, p. 18. The need for comprehensive and technically sound studies is supported by actual reliability events 
involving large loads, unplanned and planned maintenance of co-located generating facilities, and the challenges in 
ensuring large loads and hybrid facilities operate at all times per the requirements in their interconnection 
agreements. 
56 Initial Comments of PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., pp. 9-10. Google asserts: “Indeed, paired load and grid-
connected generation presents an even more compelling case for consideration of operating parameters because 
these arrangements can often involve unique operating characteristics that are unlike a standalone load or standalone 
generator. Moreover, these arrangements are a valuable mechanism to facility the load growth necessary to meet the 

--- PAGE 17 ---
 
15 
 
PJM further observes that the ANOPR’s “connect-and-manage” approach is not as robust 
and reliable as existing practices and increases operational burdens.57 The NERC Large Load Task 
Force is well-equipped to continue its work,58 and its results should inform the Commission. 
 
The PJM Transmission Owners raise concerns similar to PJM’s, and state that the 
interconnection study process needs to ensure that the full amount of the customer’s on-site load 
and generation can be reliably interconnected,59 which requires studying them separately.  
2. 
FERC should approach injection and withdrawal rights according to 
grid-protective assumptions that prevent free-riding and regulatory evasion. 
The fifth principle for reform included in the ANOPR provides: 
 
Fifth, hybrid facilities should be studied based on the amount of injection and/or 
withdrawal rights requested. For example, a hybrid facility consisting of a 500MW 
load and a 600MW generating facility may seek no withdrawal rights and 100MW 
of injection rights. This provides incentives for co-location with new generation 
facilities and ensures efficient buildout of the transmission system.60 
 
 
FERC should consider coordinating large load studies while studying load and generation 
separately in case “the system needs to accommodate the full amount of the on-site load, or on-
site generation, without the other.”61 Experimental configurations merit close scrutiny, to ensure 
that the large loads do not engage in “free-riding” or other regulatory manipulation.62 As the Edison 
Electric Institute stated, “to ensure fairness and avoid implementation complexity, the Commission 
 
AI moment while minimizing strain on the grid.” Comments of Google LLC, p. 10. Numerous, unique operating 
arrangements may introduce reliability challenges particularly if they are studied in an accelerated and truncated 
manner and if any associated operating restrictions compliance cannot be guaranteed. 
57 Initial Comments of PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., p. 10, n.5. 
58 Id. at p. 12. 
59 Comments of the Indicated PJM Transmission Owners, pp. 36-37. 
60 ANOPR, supra note 5, at P 22. 
61 Comments of the Indicated PJM Transmission Owners, pp. 36-37. 
62 See Comments of the Edison Electric Institute, at p. 17. 

--- PAGE 18 ---
 
16 
 
should make a gross load approach the default for both ancillary services and transmission, subject 
to exception only if a utility supports and the state approves a different approach.”63 
 
The Joint Consumer Advocates submit that permitting hybrid facilities to be metered on a 
gross basis, instead of on a net basis, helps to ensure that hybrid facilities are adequately paying 
for the costs the transmission utility incurred to serve them. As PPL Electric argued, the use of net 
metering for hybrid facilities can permit the network customer to evade its fair share of 
transmission rates and can result in subsidization by other network customers.64 While having large 
loads bring their own generation and interconnect as hybrid facilities can be beneficial for 
reliability and resource adequacy, as well as capacity, energy, and transmission costs,65 large loads 
are still responsible for paying for their share of the existing transmission system based upon their 
net metered load. As a result, the Joint Consumer Advocates recommend that hybrid facilities have 
their load and generation components metered separately, to ensure fair and accurate cost 
allocation of transmission costs.  
3. 
FERC and PJM should facilitate expedited interconnection studies of 
large loads and hybrid facilities that agree to be meaningfully curtailable or 
dispatchable. 
The seventh principle for reform included in the ANOPR provides: 
 
Seventh, the interconnection study of large loads that agree to be curtailable and 
hybrid facilities that agree to be curtailable and dispatchable should be expedited. 
The system operator’s ability to control such facilities through curtailment and/or 
dispatch must be sufficient for the system operator to integrate the facility into both 
operations and system planning. This ensures the timely and orderly addition of 
large loads to the transmission system in a safe, reliable, and non-discriminatory 
manner. We seek comment on whether this should be accomplished through a serial 
interconnection study process or by some other means. We also seek comment on 
 
63 Id. at 16. 
64 Comments of PPL Services Corporation, p. 2.  
65 See generally, CARLO BRANCUCCI, DYLAN CUTLER & JESSE JENKINS, FLEXIBLE DATA CENTERS: A FASTER, MORE 
AFFORDABLE PATH TO POWER (2025), https://www.camus.energy/flexible-data-center-report. 

--- PAGE 19 ---
 
17 
 
appropriate deadlines for such an expedited study process, including whether such 
studies can be completed in 60 days.66 
 
 
In the Initial Joint Comments, the Joint Consumer Advocates raised important reliability 
concerns regarding the interconnection of large loads and hybrid facilities and reiterate these 
concerns in response to other comments. 
 
As other commenters noted, if implemented, Principle 7 requires “fully developed 
processes that ensure reliability”67 and may require the transmission owner “to separately study 
large loads.”68 The Joint Consumer Advocates also concur with the comments that any curtailable 
or dispatchable commitments made by large loads and hybrid facilities must be verifiable, 
enforceable, and subject to penalties for non-performance.69 There should not be limits on the 
number of curtailable events or the number of times for curtailments as some request.70 Such limits 
shift the risk of curtailments to other large loads and hybrid facilities which did not receive the 
benefits of expedited interconnection and to other non-large load customers that are not causing 
the need for curtailment. 
 
The Initial Joint Comments raised the concern with resource adequacy if large loads are 
allowed to interconnect without having sufficient capacity (either through generation and reserves 
or capacity-backed demand response) to offset the additional load.71 The PJM Market Monitor has 
filed a Complaint on a similar basis, asserting that it is not “just and reasonable for PJM to add 
 
66 ANOPR, supra note 5, at P 24.  
67 Comments of the Indicated PJM Transmission Owners, p. 38. 
68 Comments of the Indicated PJM Transmission Owners, p. 38. 
69 Comments of Emerald AI, p. 4; Comments of the Ohio Consumers’ Counsel, pp. 9-11.  
70 Comments of Emerald AI, p. 8; Comments of Google LLC, p. 12. 
71 Joint Comments of the Pennsylvania Office of Consumer Advocate and Delaware Division of the Public 
Advocate, p. 24.  

--- PAGE 20 ---
 
18 
 
new loads that it cannot serve reliably.”72 If any load is not fully capacity-backed at the time of 
interconnection, no load is capacity-backed.73  
 
Some commenters oppose considering resource adequacy as part of the large load or hybrid 
facility interconnection process.74 They argue that such considerations discriminate against new 
load and existing generators.75 In the PJM context, such arguments do not account for existing 
agreements that require load serving entities to comply with resource adequacy requirements.76 
Prior to the surge in large load interconnection requests, as a practical matter, it was not necessary 
to evaluate whether small, typical loads would cause a resource adequacy problem because there 
was more than sufficient existing generation capacity and the market signal for new generation 
had been relatively modest. Now that the PJM market is tight and increasingly short, the addition 
of large loads, which outpaces the addition of capacity, creates new and unique challenges for the 
regional grid that will not likely be solved solely through agreements to curtail.   
4. 
FERC should ensure that large loads and hybrid facilities pay fully for 
their network upgrade costs without unjustly burdening residential ratepayers 
and all other grid users. 
The eighth principle for reform included in the ANOPR provides: 
 
Eighth, load and hybrid facilities should be responsible for 100% of the network 
upgrades that they are assigned through the interconnection studies. We seek 
comment on whether such costs should be offset through a crediting mechanism 
and, if so, over how many years.77 
 
 
 
72 Comments of the Independent Market Monitor for PJM, Attach. A, p. 6 (filing Complaint). 
73 See Comments of the Independent Market Monitor for PJM, Attach. B. 
74 Comments of the Electric Power Supply Association, p. 18; Comments of Google LLC, p. 11 & n.11. 
75 See supra Section III.B (explaining basis for reasonable discriminations based on AI data centers’ unique 
characteristics and effects). 
76 Comments of the Independent Market Monitor for PJM, Attach. A, pp. 8-9 (filing Complaint). 
77 ANOPR, supra note 5, at P 25. 

--- PAGE 21 ---
 
19 
 
The Commission should consider Commissioner Chang’s concurring opinion in PECO 
Energy Company and its focus on the “higher of” method of transmission cost allocation.78 As 
noted in the Initial Joint Comments, large load and hybrid facilities should be responsible for 100% 
of the network upgrade assigned to them through the interconnection studies and that these costs 
should not be offset through a crediting mechanism.79 The Joint Consumer Advocates specifically 
recommend that FERC revisit a “but-for” test when determining which costs should be paid 100% 
by the large load customers, similar to the test traditionally used by FERC for cost allocation for 
the interconnection of generators.80  
a. 
FERC should consider revisiting its transmission cost allocation 
methods for new large loads because Mobile-Sierra review under 
the existing framework offers insufficient consumer protections 
from the unique impacts of “discrete large loads.” 
Commissioner Chang’s concurring opinion correctly addresses cooperative federalism and 
the need for consumer-protective transmission cost allocation. Individually negotiated 
transmission security agreements reviewed under a Mobile-Sierra framework using the existing 
cost allocation paradigm offer insufficient consumer protections.81 These agreements implicate 
“complicated jurisdictional and policy questions with significant implications for both state and 
federal regulators,” and therefore “we should exercise our authorities in a complementary fashion 
to ensure that both retail and wholesale customers are protected against unjustified cost increases 
associated with large discrete load additions.”82 As a result, FERC should close jurisdictional gaps 
 
78 See PECO TSA Order, 193 FERC ¶ 61,148 (2025) (Chang, Comm’r, concurring) (highlighting customer impacts 
from massive scope of data-center-focused transmission buildout in PJM and resulting need for federal minimum 
customer protections). 
79 Comments of the Ohio Consumers’ Counsel, p. 2. 
80 Joint Comments of the Pennsylvania Office of Consumer Advocate and Delaware Division of the Public 
Advocate, pp. 26-27.  
81 PECO TSA Order, at PP 1-2 (Chang, Comm’r, concurring). 
82 Id. at PP 2-3 (Chang, Comm’r, concurring). 

--- PAGE 22 ---
 
20 
 
where states cannot act to protect retail customers.83 This gap-closing should continue to 
“recognize[] and preserve[] states’ essential role in protecting retail customers.”84 
The new data center load addition paradigm is fundamentally altering “the pace, amount, 
and size of new transmission investment.”85 This has manifested through hundreds of new 
transmission projects costing billions of dollars, creating circumstances conducive to the 
Commission’s application of its “higher of policy.”86 Commissioner Chang explains: 
If the Commission were to adopt such a “higher of” policy in this situation, the new, 
discrete large load would pay the “higher of” the rolled-in rate or an incremental 
rate where the costs of the upgrades to the transmission system are paid for solely 
by the new loads. Under such a pricing policy, existing consumers would be 
protected from cost increases associated with the potential significant cost of the 
upgrades to the transmission system necessary to serve the new incremental 
customer(s). This “higher of” pricing policy could serve as a useful approach for 
ensuring that the new, discrete large load’s demand does not significantly and 
directly increase the cost of transmission for other customers.87 
The Commission should consider implementing a cooperative federalism approach 
according to a clear policy with minimum standards, because “the scale and cost implications of 
discrete large loads are clearly bringing this issue to the fore.”88 While the Joint Consumer 
Advocates supported the use of a “but-for” test when determining which costs should be paid 
100% by large load additions in the Initial Joint Comments, the Joint Consumer Advocates 
encourage FERC to consider the implications of a “higher of” policy in the alternative. Ultimately, 
however, the most critical consideration is ensuring that new large loads bear at least the full cost 
 
83 Id. at P 3 (Chang, Comm’r, concurring). 
84 Id. 
85 See PECO TSA Order, at P 4 (Chang, Comm’r, concurring). 
86 Id. at P 4 & nn. 5-6 (first citing Union of Concerned Scientists, Connection Costs 4 (Sep. 2025), 
https://www.ucs.org/sites/default/files/2025- 09/PJM%20Data%20Center%20Issue%20Brief%20-
%20Sep%202025.pdf; and then citing Inquiry Concerning the Commission’s Pricing Policy for Transmission Servs. 
Provided by Pub. Utils. Under the Fed. Power Act, 59 Fed. Reg. 55031 (Nov. 3, 1994), FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 
31,005 (1994)). 
87 Id. at P 5. 
88 See 193 FERC ¶ 61,148, at P 6 (Chang, Comm’r, concurring). 

--- PAGE 23 ---
 
21 
 
of the network upgrades that their interconnections cause. Without cost allocation reform, existing 
customers will face mounting transmission costs due to the cumulative effect of a patchwork of 
individually negotiated interconnection agreements, reviewed under a Mobile-Sierra standard, 
which comprise a significant portion of current grid usage.   
b. 
FERC should consider assigning 100% of network upgrade 
costs to large loads and hybrid facilities, without a crediting 
mechanism. 
The Joint Consumer Advocates recommend that FERC revisit the “but-for” test for 
determining cost causation for large load customers’ transmission upgrades, and assign 100% of 
network upgrade costs which would not have been incurred but-for the large load or hybrid 
facility’s interconnection to that facility.89 FERC should also consider the  “higher-of” policy that 
Commissioner Chang described, as outlined above, to the extent that it declines to assign 100% of 
network upgrade costs to large load and hybrid facilities. Importantly, FERC should not permit a 
crediting mechanism to reimburse large loads or hybrid facilities for the payment of up-front costs 
and should ensure that large loads and hybrid facilities continue to contribute to all network costs 
in addition to the direct costs of interconnection.  
Several commenters disagree with the ANOPR’s proposed 100% network cost allocation 
to large loads and hybrid facilities.90 One purported reason for socializing or rolling network 
upgrades into transmission rate base is that to do so is “long maintained” Commission policy.91 
This policy, however, did not contemplate the size, planning and operating complexities of large 
new data center load additions, and, in many cases, the combination of large loads with generation, 
 
89 Joint Comments of the Pennsylvania Office of Consumer Advocate and Delaware Division of the Public 
Advocate, pp. 26-27.  
90 Comments of FirstEnergy Service Company, p. 3; Comments of the Indicated PJM Transmission Owners, p. 3. 
91 Comments of FirstEnergy Service Company, p. 7; Comments of the Indicated PJM Transmission Owners, pp. 10-
15. 

--- PAGE 24 ---
 
22 
 
either co-located or behind the meter. Typical loads did not have interconnection studies that 
determined the required network upgrades because they were too small to be individually 
impactful. The very premise of this ANOPR is that large loads and hybrid facilities are 
fundamentally different from historical loads. New large loads and hybrid facilities require 
interconnection studies, and those interconnection studies should account for the resource 
adequacy challenges that require special regulatory treatment different from typical loads. Further, 
new investment in large data center loads can be more speculative than that in large loads which 
have already interconnected to the grid, increasing the risk of stranded costs; as a result, it is 
imperative to create new frameworks which permit FERC and the states to adapt to this new type 
of customer.92   
 
A second purported reason to socialize costs is that these network upgrades benefit the 
broader grid or regional reliability.93 Under Principle 8, the network upgrades that are assigned 
through interconnection studies to large loads and hybrid facilities are attributable to the large load 
or hybrid facility. The ability of that large load or hybrid facility to interconnect requires associated 
network upgrades; therefore, the interconnection customer should be assigned the associated 
costs—not other ratepayers. Using a “but-for” method of cost causation or “higher of” method of 
cost allocation for the additions of large loads streamlines the interconnection process, reduces the 
possibility that existing customers would bear stranded costs and ensures that the interconnection 
of large loads provides greater system benefit than harm. 
 
A third purported reason to socialize the associated network upgrades is that it reduces 
costs for all ratepayers.94 Socialization increases the costs to non-large load customers because 
 
92 See generally, ARUN, supra note 7 (identifying that investment in new large data center loads can be highly 
speculative, which creates the risk for an increase in stranded costs). 
93 Comments of FirstEnergy Service Company, p. 7. 
94 Comments of the Indicated PJM Transmission Owners, pp. 10-15. 

--- PAGE 25 ---
 
23 
 
they are paying for some of the network upgrade costs that they otherwise would not be paying 
but-for the addition of the large load customers. Additionally, large load customers should pay for 
their share of the existing transmission network that enables reliable service in addition to the cost 
of transmission plant necessary for interconnection.95 Because network rates are often charged on 
a demand basis, the high demands of large loads have the potential to provide significant benefits 
to existing customers, but only if the growth in transmission rate base is outpaced by the growth 
in demand.  
 
A fourth purported reason is that socialization speeds up interconnection by avoiding 
upgrade disputes.96 Disputes over the cost of network upgrades depend on the need and costs of 
the upgrade, and whomever is paying for these costs may dispute them. By having large loads and 
hybrid facilities pay 100% for network upgrades that they are assigned, the Commission will 
incentivize them to locate, design, and operate their facilities so that these network costs are 
minimized, thereby reducing the number and amount of cost disputes. Assigning costs caused by 
one entity to others, which socialization does, is likely to increase, not reduce, the number of 
disputes. A black-line, but-for test would provide administrative certainty about cost obligations, 
reduce the risk of disputes, and be markedly more efficient than applying current procedures to the 
unique circumstances of large load additions.  
 
A fifth purported reason is that socialization may interfere with how a state utility 
commission wants to assign transmission costs.97 In either case of socialization or 100% 
assignment, the Commission is assigning costs to some set of transmission customers, and state 
 
95 See, e.g., AMTRAK v. PPL Elec. Utils. Corp., 171 F.E.R.C. ¶ 61,237, PP 36-45 (2020) (providing that a 
transmission customer relying on both co-located generation as well as network services is appropriately charged the 
full network rate to prevent the risk of a “split system”).  
96 Comments of the Indicated PJM Transmission Owners, pp. 10-15. 
97 Comments of the Indicated PJM Transmission Owners, pp. 29-32. 

--- PAGE 26 ---
 
24 
 
utility commissions are still able to assign transmission costs as part of their retail ratemaking 
authority. However, before a state commission in a state with unbundled retail transmissions, the 
methodology which determines the inputs to the FERC-jurisdictional transmission charges are not 
subject to that state’s review.98 As a result, a FERC determination as to the methodologies 
appropriate for determining inputs to FERC-jurisdictional transmissions would not affect state-
jurisdictional allocations of retail transmission charges.  
 
A sixth purported reason is that 100% assignment transfers significant costs to new large 
load would be burdensome.99 By having large loads and hybrid facilities pay 100% for network 
upgrades that they are assigned, FERC will incentivize them to locate, design, and operate their 
facilities such that these network costs are minimized. It also should reduce the number and 
complexity of these upgrades, which will reduce the time to interconnection, preserving the 
benefits of new large load additions for existing customers while simultaneously benefitting new 
large loads’ interconnection. 
 
A seventh purported reason is that ratepayers can be protected from the risk of stranded 
costs via utility-large load agreements and retail tariffs.100 Socialization risks ratepayers paying for 
the stranded transmission upgrade costs of large loads and hybrid facilities, which is a real and 
substantial risk.101 Further, FERC establishing cost allocation methodologies consistent with those 
employed for generation interconnection would not infringe on the ability of states or utilities to 
require large loads to establish credit standards to alleviate the risk of stranded investment in the 
 
98 See Commw. Edison Co., 133 F.E.R.C. ¶ 61,118, ¶¶ 11-13 (2010).  
99 Comments of PPL Services Corporation, pp. 3, 10-12. 
100 Comments of FirstEnergy Service Company, p. 8; Comments of the Indicated PJM Transmission Owners, pp. 
10, 16-25. 
101 See, ARUN, supra note 7, at 43-48, 57-58 (illustrating various financial risks throughout AI data center industry, 
all predicated on uncertain revenue and consumer demand that have yet to materialize, and culminating in stranded 
assets). 

--- PAGE 27 ---
 
25 
 
event that the large load would terminate service while the network upgrades its interconnection 
caused would be fully depreciated from rate base. This is why the Joint Consumer Advocates 
requested that FERC establish minimum contractual provisions to ensure that costs do not become 
stranded, a concern which is not mitigated through cost allocation methodologies, alone.102  
 
An eighth purported reason is that socialization of assigned network upgrades is necessary 
to maintain the financial viability of transmission owners and allowing a return on investment.103 
Transmission utilities frequently have arrangements, such as through PJM’s regional planning 
initiatives, in which their transmission system and facilities are planned, maintained, and operated 
with the transmission systems and facilities of other transmission owners. In addition to those 
arrangements, traditional cost of service ratemaking is sufficient to permit transmission utilities a 
reasonable opportunity to earn a return on investment to serve large load customers; cost allocation 
methodologies appropriately designed to allocate costs to large load additions would not change 
the adequacy of existing ratemaking tools, which are sufficient for generation interconnection. 
Furthermore, FERC action on cost allocation methodologies would not infringe on a utility’s 
ability to contract for assurances of costs, such as through security agreements.     
IV. 
CONCLUSION 
The Pennsylvania Office of Consumer Advocate, the Delaware Division of the Public 
Advocate, and the Office of the Illinois Attorney General respectfully request that the Commission 
consider and adopt the concerns and proposals set forth in these reply comments and the Initial 
Joint Comments submitted in this proceeding.  
 
102Joint Comments of the Pennsylvania Office of Consumer Advocate and Delaware Division of the Public 
Advocate, pp. 31-35.  
103 Comments of the Indicated PJM Transmission Owners, pp. 9-10, 21-29. 

--- PAGE 28 ---
 
26 
 
Counsel for: 
Darryl Lawrence 
Consumer Advocate 
 
Pennsylvania Office of Consumer Advocate 
555 Walnut Street 
5th Floor, Forum Place 
Harrisburg, PA 17101-1923 
717-783-5048 
 
Dated: December 5, 2025 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
/s/ Melanie Joy El Atieh 
  
Melanie Joy El Atieh 
Deputy Consumer Advocate  
PA Attorney ID # 209323 
MElAtieh@paoca.org 
 
Jacob Guthrie 
Assistant Consumer Advocate 
PA Attorney ID # 334367 
JGuthrie@paoca.org 
 
Josiah Harmar 
Assistant Consumer Advocate 
PA Attorney ID # 338426 
JHarmar@paoca.org 
Counsel for: 
Delaware Division of the Public Advocate  
Jameson A.L. Tweedie, Public Advocate 
 
Dated: December 5, 2025 
 
 
/s/ David Crumplar 
  
David Crumplar (DE Bar ID No. 5876) 
Deputy Attorney General 
820 N. French St., 6th Floor 
Wilmington, DE 19801 
Phone:  302-577-8400 
David.Crumplar@delaware.gov 
Counsel for: 
Office of the Illinois Attorney General, 
Kwame Raoul 
 
  
 
 
 
Dated: December 5, 2025 
 
 
/s/ Kimberly B. Janas 
  
Susan L. Satter 
 
  
 
Chief, Public Utilities Bureau 
  
 
Kimberly B. Janas 
 
  
 
Counsel to the Attorney General 
Scott Metzger 
Senior Assistant Attorney General 
 
115 South LaSalle Street, 25th Floor 
Chicago, IL 60603 
(312) 771-1632 
 
 
susan.satter@ilag.gov 
kimberly.janas@ilag.gov 
scott.metzger@ilag.gov 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 29 ---
 
27 
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
I hereby certify that I have this day served the foregoing document on those parties on the 
official Service List compiled by the Secretary in these proceedings.  
Dated at Harrisburg, Pennsylvania this 5th day of December, 2025. 
 
 
/s/ Josiah B. Harmar 
  
Josiah Harmar 
Assistant Consumer Advocate 
PA Attorney ID # 338426 
JHarmar@paoca.org 
 
 
 
