--- PAGE 1 ---
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
COMMENTS OF THE CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF WATER 
RESOURCES STATE WATER PROJECT 
The California Department of Water Resources State Water Project (“DWR”) 
appreciates the opportunity to comment on the October 23, 2025, Advance Notice of 
Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”),1 which requests comments on “potential reforms to 
ensure the timely and orderly interconnection of large loads to the transmission system.”2 
DWR appreciates the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (the “Commission”) 
efforts to address large load interconnections and provides the below comments on 
certain Principles for Reform included in the ANOPR. 
Specifically, DWR comments on Principles Seven, Eight, and Thirteen:  
• Principle Seven: The Commission should not establish expedited study 
treatment for large loads that agree to be curtailable, due to the potential 
for discriminatory access and increased costs to ratepayers. Instead, the 
Commission should adopt market-based approaches to encourage load—
both new and existing—to be curtailable, which will mitigate undue 
discrimination concerns and more fully unlock the benefits of curtailable 
load. 
• Principle Eight: DWR supports holding large loads responsible for 
financing 100% of the network upgrade costs they are assigned, which 
will protect other customers from bearing costs they did not cause. This 
assignment of costs should be paired with an appropriate crediting 
mechanism that keeps other wholesale transmission customers whole. 
 
1 Secretary of Energy, Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (released Oct. 23, 2025), eLibrary 
No. 20251027-4001 (“ANOPR”). 
2 ANOPR P 1 (footnote omitted). 

--- PAGE 2 ---
- 2 - 
• Principle Thirteen. As part of a plan to implement any large load 
interconnection reforms, the Commission must respect regional 
differences and include the independent entity variation for RTOs/ISOs. 
I. 
DESCRIPTION OF DWR 
The California Department of Water Resources is an agency of the State of 
California, headquartered in Sacramento. It is responsible for monitoring, conserving, and 
developing California’s water resources, providing flood protection to ensure public 
safety, and preventing property damage related to water resources. A primary 
responsibility of DWR is the construction, operation, and maintenance of the State Water 
Project (“SWP”). 
The SWP is the largest state-owned, multi-purpose water project in the country. 
Its operations are critical to the resources and economy of the state. The SWP’s system 
spans nearly the entire state, from Upper Feather River reservoirs and Lake Oroville in 
Northern California to Pyramid, Castaic, Silverwood and Perris reservoirs in Southern 
California. The SWP delivers an average of 2.6 million acre-feet of water per year to 29 
public agency water contractors throughout California. Approximately 40% of the 
deliveries are used to irrigate approximately 750,000 acres of farmland. The rest of the 
deliveries serve the water needs of more than 27 million Californians. 
In order to serve these needs, the SWP’s water conveyance system includes 29 
water storage facilities, approximately 700 miles of aqueducts and pipe lines, 21 pumping 
plants, three pumping-generating plants and five hydroelectric power plants. The SWP’s 
power generating sources have capacity of over 1,595 megawatts, and generate 3 to 5 
million megawatt-hours of energy per year. The SWP’s pumping facilities have a 
capacity of approximately 2,576 megawatts, and consume 6 to 9.5 million megawatt-
hours of energy per year. In addition to its hydroelectric facilities, the SWP receives 

--- PAGE 3 ---
- 3 - 
power from long-term contracts. Furthermore, the SWP manages its power operation 
through self-generation, load management including demand response, purchase and 
sales transactions with other entities, and participation in the California Independent 
System Operator Corporation (“CAISO”) power markets. 
II. 
COMMUNICATIONS 
All communications related to this proceeding should be addressed to the 
following individuals: 
Lisa G. Dowden 
Amanda C. Drennen 
Samuel B. Whillans 
SPIEGEL & MCDIARMID LLP 
1818 N Street NW, 8th Floor 
Washington, DC 20036 
Phone: (202) 879-4000 
lisa.dowden@spiegelmcd.com 
amanda.drennen@spiegelmcd.com 
samuel.whillans@spiegelmcd.com 
Matthew J. Goldman  
Deputy Attorney General  
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE  
PO Box 944255  
Sacramento, CA 94244  
Phone: (916) 210-7841  
matthew.goldman@doj.ca.gov 
 
Jorge Quintero 
Masoud Shafa 
Trong Bui 
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF WATER 
RESOURCES 
PO Box 899 
Sacramento, CA 95812 
Phone: (916) 653-5791  
jorge.quintero@water.ca.gov 
masoud.shafa@water.ca.gov  
trong.bui@water.ca.gov 
 
Robert S. Hedrick  
Robin M. Hennessy 
Office of the General Counsel  
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF WATER 
RESOURCES 
PO Box 899 
Sacramento, CA 95812 
Phone: (916) 653-5791   
robert.hedrick@water.ca.gov 
robin.hennessy@water.ca.gov 
 
III. 
COMMENTS 
A. 
Principle Seven. To incentivize load to be curtailable, load should 
be enabled to participate in the regional markets to the maximum 
extent possible. 
DWR appreciates the Commission’s focus on curtailable load and agrees that 
there are benefits to curtailable load that should be encouraged through appropriate 

--- PAGE 4 ---
- 4 - 
means. Rather than offering expedited interconnection on a preferential basis, the 
Commission should consider other market incentives to encourage these resources.  
Preferential access to the queue raises the potential for game playing—many generators 
could conform their projects to include new, curtailable load, thus crowding the queue for 
other generators and new loads. New loads that cannot accept curtailment under all 
conditions might have more trouble interconnecting and face higher costs. Instead, the 
Commission should direct transmission providers to enable load to participate in their 
respective markets to the maximum extent possible. Maximized market participation, 
including through load-side bidding and demand response, is preferable to a jump-the-
line approach as the market will deliver more effective incentives to all new and installed 
curtailable load, which will result in more available system capacity than a one-time 
incentive only available to new load interconnections. 
Expedited study treatment is a less effective means of unlocking the benefits of 
curtailable load, because it is a one-time incentive that would only apply to new large 
load interconnection requests. An expedited study process approach entirely ignores 
existing load that could be curtailable (or more curtailable)—leaving valuable curtailable 
capacity on the table.  
Instead, the Commission should promote better utilization of curtailable load 
through market solutions that enable curtailable load to participate in markets and that 
appropriately compensate it for the value it provides. Such market-based approaches do 
not present the same undue discrimination concerns as a one-off, expedited study for 
certain load interconnections, as they link the incentive (e.g., market payments) to the 
particular benefit provided by any load capable of curtailment.  

--- PAGE 5 ---
- 5 - 
Moreover, the incentives for large loads to curtail that are provided through well-
designed market-based solutions will update over time as either the amount of 
curtailability or its value changes. This flexibility and precision are particularly important 
given the changes in technology relative to large loads, particularly data centers. Data 
center load is proving to be increasingly flexible as their operational focus changes from 
cloud services to artificial intelligence.3 New data center technology can delay certain 
energy-intensive tasks to times when generator curtailments are high or when other 
demand is low.4 They can also shift their cooling operations to optimal timeframes.5 But 
these shifts have economic impacts on large load—shifting cooling can shorten the life of 
data center components, for example.6 A market solution could be a win-win for large 
load and ratepayers—it provides an economic solution to potentially uneconomic conduct 
by the large load, while decreasing the overall load burden on existing systems, which 
could require less transmission, distribution, and generation build-out (and thus less 
impact on ratepayers). 
DWR is the largest single load participating in the CAISO markets to the extent 
allowed. CAISO’s markets do not currently allow real-time load bidding, but CAISO is 
 
3 Tyler H. Norris et al., Rethinking Load Growth: Assessing the Potential for Integration of Large Flexible 
Loads in US Power Systems at 11, Nicholas Institute for Energy, Environment & Sustainability (2025), 
https://nicholasinstitute.duke.edu/sites/default/files/publications/rethinking-load-growth.pdf (“Unlike the 
many real-time processing demands typical of conventional data center workloads, such as cloud services 
and enterprise applications, the training of neural networks that power large language models and other 
machine learning algorithms is deferrable. This flexibility in timing . . . allows for strategic scheduling of 
training as well as other delay-tolerant tasks.”). 
4 Id. 
5 Id. at 12 (“[O]perators can increase cooling during midday when solar energy is abundant and reduce 
cooling during peak evening demand.”). 
6 Id. (stating that shifting cooling “may be perceived as uneconomic due to potential impacts on 
performance”). 

--- PAGE 6 ---
- 6 - 
exploring this functionality through its ongoing stakeholder initiative process.7 DWR 
appreciates CAISO’s ongoing development of real-time load bidding because it provides 
system benefits for little additional cost to ratepayers. CAISO’s Department of Market 
Monitoring (“DMM”) supports real-time load bidding functionality because it can 
provide such benefits as “increase[d] market reliability and efficiency” and “lower[] real-
time system costs.”8 Reducing load in real-time allows “existing on-line capacity to meet 
the needs of the system without additional supply. The additional supply could then 
contribute to reserves for tight conditions, and as a result lower real-time system costs 
because the market would not be dispatching the next marginal unit.”9  
Unlocking the curtailability of existing loads requires no upgrades or increased 
ratepayer costs—it simply requires new market functionality.10 If CAISO implements 
real-time load bidding, DWR can provide approximately 2,600 MW of available 
curtailable load, because the State Water Project’s water pumping operations are 
curtailable in response to market signals. DWR can increase its load during times of low 
demand and high curtailment and decrease its load during times of high demand, thereby 
providing the system benefits described by CAISO’s DMM. 
 
7 See CAISO, Initiative: Demand and Distributed Energy Market Integration, CAISO Stakeholder Center,  
https://stakeholdercenter.caiso.com/StakeholderInitiatives/Demand-Distributed-Energy-Market-Integration 
(last visited Nov. 18, 2025). 
8 DMM, Comments on Demand and Distributed Energy Market Integration Working Group at 2, 5 (Nov. 6, 
2025), https://stakeholdercenter.caiso.com/Common/DownloadFile/18566d0b-731c-410d-a7fa-
d1b47391f855.  
9 DMM, Comments on Demand and Distributed Energy Market Integration Working Group Discussion 
Paper at 3 (July 11, 2025), https://stakeholdercenter.caiso.com/Common/DownloadFile/74a0fcb7-b9be-
4540-8020-872ec8691f36. 
10 DWR notes that in CAISO’s case, it simply requires restored market functionality. Certain types of load 
were able to bid into the real-time market prior to CAISO’s 2008 market redesign. CAISO has yet to 
restore the functionality despite its increasing value as generation curtailments increase within CAISO. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
- 7 - 
Enabling load to participate in the markets to the extent possible is consistent with 
past Commission statements and practice.11 The Commission’s support for demand-side 
bidding is more important than ever as load increases across the nation—the Commission 
should reiterate that support and order transmission providers to enable load to participate 
in the markets to the extent possible. 
B. 
Principle Eight. Wholesale customers should be held harmless 
for new load interconnections. 
New large interconnections should finance 100% of the network upgrades they 
are assigned through the interconnection study process. New large load interconnections, 
such as those for data centers, are creating challenges due to their unique size, pace of 
growth, and distinctive characteristics.  
While the forecasts for these large loads are massive, they are also uncertain and 
unpredictable. In September 2025, then-Chairman Rosner issued a letter to RTOs/ISOs 
focused on load growth from large data centers and advanced manufacturing, recognizing 
that “we cannot efficiently plan the electric generation and transmission needed to serve 
new customers if we don’t forecast how much energy they will need as accurately as 
possible.”12 The responses confirmed the unique challenges of forecasting these large 
 
11 See, e.g., Regional Transmission Organizations, Order No. 2000, 89 FERC ¶ 61,285, FERC Stats. & 
Regs. at 31,217 (1999), order on reh’g, Order No. 2000–A, 90 FERC ¶ 61,201 (2000) (“Demand-side 
bidding is desirable to the extent it is technically feasible, because without it, demand response decreases 
and market power is easier to exercise. The availability of price responsive demand also reduces price 
volatility in the markets.”) (footnote omitted); Wholesale Competition in Regions with Organized Electric 
Markets, Order No. 719, 125 FERC ¶ 61,071, P 18 (2008), corrected, 126 FERC ¶ 61,261, on reh’g, Order 
No. 719-A, 128 FERC ¶ 61,059, on reh’g, Order No. 719-B, 129 FERC ¶ 61,252 (2009). FERC’s goal of 
fully integrating demand-side resources into organized markets should not “be delayed until every barrier 
to demand response, whether retail or wholesale, technological or regulatory, is identified and addressed.” 
Wholesale Competition in Regions with Organized Electric Markets, 122 FERC ¶ 61,167, P 109 (2008). 
12 David Rosner, Chairman Rosner’s Letter to the RTOs/ISOs on Large Load Forecasting, FERC (Sep. 18, 
2025), https://www.ferc.gov/news-events/news/chairman-rosners-letter-rtosisos-large-load-forecasting.  

--- PAGE 8 ---
- 8 - 
loads. In response, CAISO explained that it has “developed a ‘large loads’ team across 
the CAISO to analyze large load issues.”13 
The uncertainty and unpredictability of large load forecasts presents risks of 
unjust, unreasonable, and unduly discriminatory transmission rates. If massive 
transmission investments are made to serve these loads, yet the expected demand does 
not materialize, other customers may be left holding the bag. These wholesale customers 
have already incurred the costs necessary to accommodate their normal load growth (and 
in some instances have paid for available capacity that may be used up by new large 
loads). To prevent existing wholesale customers from bearing disproportionate costs for 
new load interconnections, the Commission should adopt an approach, consistent with 
Principle Eight, that holds large loads such as data centers responsible for financing the 
network upgrades triggered by their interconnections. 
This assignment of costs should be paired with an appropriate crediting 
mechanism. This crediting mechanism might vary from region-to-region, but it must be 
designed to keep wholesale customers whole and disincentivize speculative load that will 
impose costs on wholesale customers. Appropriate crediting requirements for this 
purpose will need to look different than crediting mechanisms used for generator 
interconnections. Under the CAISO large generator interconnection procedures, for 
example, “the Interconnection Customer shall be entitled to a repayment for the cost of 
Network Upgrades” to be paid “within five (5) years of the Commercial Operation 
 
13 Letter from Elliot Mainzer, President and Chief Executive Officer of CAISO, to FERC Chairman David 
Rosner re Large Load Forecasting at 2 (Oct. 15, 2025), https://www.ferc.gov/media/caiso-response-
chairman-david-rosners-09192025-letter-re-large-load-forecasting-americas. 

--- PAGE 9 ---
- 9 - 
Date.”14 Such a guaranteed crediting mechanism should not be adopted for large load 
interconnections because these credits are not tied to particular levels of usage. In 
addition, the existing guaranteed crediting mechanism is not designed to address the 
unique cost impositions that large load interconnections could have on other customers. 
Instead, a crediting system that is designed to address the problems of speculative large 
loads should include requirements that ensure a significant portion of the requested load 
shows up over a sustained period of time, in order to disincentivize over-reservation of 
transmission capacity and thus over-building of transmission to serve a load that is 
smaller than expected.  
A system that is designed to hold existing wholesale customers harmless will 
properly balance allowing new load access to the transmission system while not allowing 
speculative load interconnection requests to increase costs to existing customers. The 
Commission should aim to strike this balance by assigning network upgrades to the 
responsible new load interconnection, paired with an appropriate crediting mechanism. 
C. 
Principle Thirteen. The Final Rule should respect regional 
differences. 
Priorities and situations across the country with respect to large load integration 
differ, as do the existing interconnection procedures and tariffs into which large load 
interconnection procedures would have to be integrated. The Final Rule should adopt 
principles that guide the RTOs in their treatment of large load interconnections—but each 
RTO should be given the latitude to adopt a program that works best for its region. 
 
14 CAISO Tariff, App. U § 3.4.3. 

--- PAGE 10 ---
- 10 - 
Consistent with the Commission’s approach to generator interconnection 
procedures and agreements,15 the Commission should evaluate RTO/ISO implementation 
of any final rule in light of the independent entity variation for RTOs/ISOs. Just as in the 
context of the Commission’s standard generator interconnection rules, this flexibility is 
important to recognize efforts already underway to address these issues and to 
“encourage transmission providers to continue to innovate to remedy their identified 
interconnection queue management issues.”16 
IV. 
CONCLUSION 
DWR appreciates the opportunity to provide comments on the important topics 
raised in the ANOPR and urges the Commission to (1) encourage market-based 
approaches to incentivizing new and existing load to be curtailable instead of providing 
expedited studies for new large loads that agree to be curtailable; (2) hold new large loads 
responsible for financing 100% of the network upgrade costs they are assigned through 
the interconnection study process, paired with an appropriate crediting mechanism that 
keeps other wholesale transmission customers whole; and (3) respect regional differences 
by evaluating any RTO/ISO implementation of a final rule using the independent entity 
variation standard.  
 
 
15 See, e.g., Improvements to Generator Interconnection Procedures and Agreements, Order No. 2023, 184 
FERC ¶ 61,054, P 10 (2023), on reh’g, 185 FERC ¶ 61,063 (2023), on reh’g, Order No. 2023-A, 186 
FERC ¶ 61,199, errata notice, 188 FERC ¶ 61,134 (2024) (“We note that the compliance obligations that 
result from this final rule will be evaluated in light of the independent entity variation standard for regional 
transmission organizations (RTO) and independent system operators (ISO) . . . .”). 
16 Id.  

--- PAGE 11 ---
- 11 - 
Respectfully submitted, 
/s/ Amanda C. Drennen 
Lisa G. Dowden 
Amanda C. Drennen 
Samuel B. Whillans 
Attorneys for California Department of 
Water Resources State Water Project 
Law Offices of: 
Spiegel & McDiarmid LLP 
1818 N Street, NW 
8th Floor 
Washington, DC 20036 
(202) 879-4000 
November 21, 2025 
 
 
