--- PAGE 1 ---
 
© Monitoring Analytics 2025 | www.monitoringanalytics.com 
BY EFILING 
November 25, 2025 
Debbie-Anne A. Reese 
Secretary 
Office of the Secretary 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
888 First Street, NE 
Washington, DC 20426 
Re:  
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, 
Docket No. RM26-4-000. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dear Secretary Reese: 
Monitoring Analytics, LLC, acting in its capacity as the Independent Market Monitor for PJM 
(“Market Monitor”), provides this response to the Notice Inviting Comments dated October 
27, 2025 (“Notice”). The Notice is issued in response to a proposed advanced notice of 
proposed rulemaking (“ANOPR”) released by the Secretary of Energy on October 23, 2025, 
pursuant to section 403 of the Department of Energy Organization Act, for consideration and 
final action by the Commission. 
The Market Monitor has prepared the attached complaint against PJM Interconnection, 
L.L.C. (“Complaint”), which seeks an order finding that PJM has the authority to add large 
new data center loads only when they can be served reliably as defined both by transmission 
and capacity adequacy, and directing PJM to file tariff language stating this explicitly. The 
Complaint also seeks an order finding that PJM’s failure to clarify and enforce its existing 
rules and to protect reliable and affordable service in PJM is unjust and unreasonable. 
The Complaint is specific to the PJM market rules. The Complaint is filed now, one week 
after the last CIFP meeting, in order to inform the Commission that there is an urgent 
question that needs to be addressed in the PJM market before there can be a fully informed 
PJM filing with the Commission. The Complaint is intended to request that the Commission 
add clarity to the decision making process.  
The Complaint is not intended as an alternative to the Commission’s ANOPR process. The 
Complaint is consistent with the objectives of the ANOPR but recognizes that PJM markets 
face an urgent need for immediate clarification of PJM’s authority over the interconnection of 
large new data center loads. 

--- PAGE 2 ---
Debbie-Anne A. Reese 
November 25, 2025 
Page 2 of 2 
 
 
 
© Monitoring Analytics 2025 | www.monitoringanalytics.com 
2 
The Market Monitor’s Executive Summary submitted in the PJM CIFP process is also 
attached. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jeffrey W. Mayes 
General Counsel 
 
(610) 271-8053 
jeffrey.mayes@monitoringanalytics.com 

--- PAGE 3 ---
Attachment A - 
IMM Complaint

--- PAGE 4 ---
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Independent Market Monitor for PJM 
 
 v. 
 
PJM Interconnection, L.L.C.  
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
 
Docket No. EL26-___-000 
 
 
 
 
COMPLAINT OF THE INDEPENDENT MARKET MONITOR FOR PJM 
Pursuant to Rule 206 of the Commission’s Rules and Regulations,1 Monitoring 
Analytics, LLC, acting in its capacity as the Independent Market Monitor (“Market 
Monitor”) for PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (“PJM”),2 files this Complaint. 
PJM states repeatedly that reliability is job one. Reliability has two broad 
components. As a Regional Transmission Organization (“RTO”), PJM has the responsibility 
to ensure resource adequacy based both on maintaining a defined reserve margin through 
the capacity market and developing a Regional Transmission Expansion Plan (“RTEP”).3 
The RTEP “shall enable the transmission needs in the PJM Region to be met on a reliable, 
economic and environmentally acceptable basis.4  
                                                          
1 
18 CFR § 385.206 (2025). 
2 
Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined have the meaning used in the PJM Open 
Access Transmission Tariff (“OATT”), the PJM Operating Agreement (“OA”) or the PJM Reliability 
Assurance Agreement (“RAA”). 
3  
See OA Schedule 6; OATT Attachment DD; RAA. 
4  
See OA Schedule 6 § 1.1. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
- 2 - 
Order No. 2000 “codifies minimum characteristics and functions that a transmission 
entity must satisfy in order to be considered an RTO.”5 Order No. 2000 states: “The 
Commission’s goal is to promote efficiency in wholesale electricity markets and to ensure 
that electricity consumers pay the lowest price possible for reliable service.”6 Order No. 
2000 defines the minimum characteristics for an RTO. Order No. 2000 requires PJM, as an 
RTO, to “perform its functions consistent with established NERC (or its successor) 
reliability standards.”7 The NERC reliability standards define reliability requirements for 
planning and operating the bulk power system. One principle of the NERC reliability 
standards is that “Interconnected bulk power systems shall be planned and operated in a 
coordinated manner to perform reliably under normal and abnormal conditions as defined 
in the NERC Standards.”8  
Order No. 2000 states (at 955): 
The Regional Transmission Organization must be the only 
provider of transmission service over the facilities under its 
control, and must be the sole administrator of its own 
Commission-approved open access transmission tariff. The 
Regional Transmission Organization must have the sole authority 
to receive, evaluate, and approve or deny all requests for 
transmission service. The Regional Transmission Organization 
must have the authority to review and approve requests for new 
interconnections.  
PJM is currently proposing to allow the interconnection of large new data center 
loads that it cannot serve reliably and that will require load curtailments (black outs) of the 
                                                          
5  
See Regional Transmission Organizations, Order No. 2000, 65 Fed. Reg. 809 (January 6, 2000), order on 
reh’g, Order No. 2000-A, 90 FERC ¶ 61,201 (2000), aff’d sub nom. Pub. Util. Dist. No. 1 of Snohomish 
County, Washington v. FERC, 272 F.3d 607 (D.C. Cir. 2001). 
6  
Id. at 810. 
7  
Id. at 875. 
8  
See 
NERC 
“Reliability 
Principles,” 
(August 
29, 
2023). 
<https://www.nerc.com/
globalassets/standards/resources/documents/reliability_principles.pdf>. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
- 3 - 
data centers or of other customers at times.9 That result is not consistent with the basic 
responsibility of PJM to maintain a reliable grid and is therefore not just and reasonable. 
The Market Monitor requests that the Commission rule that PJM has the authority to 
add large new data center loads only when they can be served reliably as defined both by 
transmission and capacity adequacy. Such a ruling is necessary if PJM and its stakeholders 
are to develop reasonable rules to address the rapid addition of large new data center loads. 
PJM’s failure to clarify and enforce its existing rules and to protect reliable and affordable 
service in PJM is unjust and unreasonable. 
I. BACKGROUND 
There are clear warning signs for the capacity market. The capacity market was short 
of meeting its reliability objective in the most recent capacity auction for the 2026/2027 BRA. 
PJM was also short of meeting its IRM target as of June 1, 2025, on an ICAP and a UCAP 
basis. The amount that PJM is short capacity is relatively small, around 200 MW in both the 
BRA and the actual available capacity.10 
Data center load growth is the primary reason for recent and expected capacity 
market conditions, including total forecast load growth, the tight supply and demand 
balance, and high prices. But for data center growth, both actual and forecast, the capacity 
market would not have seen the same tight supply demand conditions, the same high 
                                                          
9  
See PJM, Large Load Additions: PJM CIFP initial proposal and Alternatives considered (September 
15, 2025) at 7 (“In the event of expected supply shortages given forecasted large loads that do not 
elect BYOG or DR, PJM would require sufficient load to be Non-Capacity-Backed Load (NCBL) to 
maintain the RTO Reliability Requirement. ”). 
10  
See Monitoring Analytics, LLC, 2025 Quarterly State of the Market Report for PJM: January through 
September, Section 5: Capacity Market, Table 5-7 (November 13, 2025). 

--- PAGE 7 ---
- 4 - 
prices observed in the 2025/2026 BRA and the 2026/2027 BRA, and the currently expected 
tight supply conditions and high prices for subsequent capacity auctions.11 12  
Holding aside all the other issues associated with the 2026/2027 BRA, existing and 
forecast data center load by itself resulted in a significant increase in the 2026/2027 BRA 
revenues. Based on actual auction clearing prices and quantities and uplift MW, inclusion 
of existing and forecast data center load in the peak load forecast for 2026 resulted in a 
$7,271,197,971 or an 82.1 percent increase in capacity market revenues for the 2026/2027 
RPM Base Residual Auction. Inclusion of existing and forecast data center load growth 
resulted in a combined total increase in capacity market revenues for the 2025/2026 BRA 
and the 2026/2027 BRA of $16,603,301,829. This total will continue to grow until the issues 
associated with the additions of large data center loads are addressed. The impact will 
increase significantly in the 2028/2029 BRA currently scheduled for June 2026, when the 
maximum and minimum prices defined by the Agreement are no longer effective.13 
The impact on the 2026/2027 BRA revenues would have been higher had PJM not 
used the restricted VRR curve defined in the Agreement. If the 2026/2027 BRA had been run 
with an unrestricted VRR curve, total revenues would have been $19,294,286,100, an 
increase of $3,169,915,210, or 19.7 percent, compared to the actual auction results. Without 
                                                          
11  
See 
“Analysis 
of 
the 
2025/2026 
RPM 
Base 
Residual 
Auction 
- 
Part 
G 
Revised,” 
<https://www.monitoringanalytics.com/reports/Reports/2025/IMM_Analysis_of_the_2025 
2026_RPM_Base_Residual_Auction_Part_G_20250603_Revised.pdf> (June 3, 2025). 
12  
See “Analysis of the 2026/2027 RPM Base Residual Auction - Part A,” (“Part A”) 
<https://www.monitoringanalytics.com/reports/Reports/2025/IMM_Analysis_of_the_20262027_RP
M_Base_Residual_Auction_Part_A_20251001.pdf> (October 1, 2025). 
13  
On December 30, 2024, in Docket No. EL25-46-000, Governor Josh Shapiro and the Commonwealth 
of Pennsylvania filed a complaint against PJM asserting that the maximum price for PJM’s capacity 
auctions is unjust and unreasonable. The Governor and PJM reached an Agreement. On February 
20, 2025, in Docket No. ER25-1357-000, pursuant to FPA section 205, PJM submitted proposed 
revisions to its Tariff to establish a specific maximum price and minimum price for all RPM 
auctions for the 2026/2027 and 2027/2028 Delivery Years, consistent with the Agreement. The 
resultant VRR curve is termed the restricted VRR curve. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
- 5 - 
the restricted VRR curve, including existing and forecast data center load in the 2026 peak 
load forecast would have resulted in capacity market revenues of $19,294,286,100, a 
$14,189,483,234 or a 278.0 percent increase in capacity market revenues for the 2026/2027 
RPM BRA compared to what RPM revenues would have been without the impact of data 
center load. 
Large data center load additions have already had a significant impact and will have 
additional significant impacts on other customers as a result of higher transmission costs, 
higher energy market prices and higher capacity market prices. 
The Department of Energy and the Commission recognize that the problem of 
serving new large data center loads is a national issue.14 15  
Specifically, the ANOPR states: (at 8) 
In light of the unprecedented current and expected growth of 
large loads seeking to interconnect to the transmission system, 
and to provide open access and nondiscriminatory access to the 
transmission system, it has become necessary to standardize 
interconnection procedures and agreements for such loads, 
including those seeking to share a point of interconnection with 
new or existing generation facilities (hybrid facilities). 
                                                          
14  
See Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Notice Inviting Comments, 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 (October 27, 2025); Secretary of Energy’s Direction that the Federal Energy 
Regulatory 
Commission 
Initiate 
Rulemaking 
Procedures 
and 
Proposal 
Regarding 
the 
Interconnection of Large Loads Pursuant to the Secretary’s Authority Under Section 403 of the 
Department of Energy Organization Act, Attachment (Ensuring the Timely and Orderly 
Interconnection of Large Loads, Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking) (October 23, 2025) (“DOE 
Directive,” with attachment “ANOPR”). 
15  
ANOPR at P 2, citing July 2025 Report <https://www.energy.gov/sites/default/files/2025-
10/403%20Large%20Loads%20Letter.pdf>; NERC, 2024 Long- Term Reliability Assessment 
(December 
2024, 
updated 
July 
2025), 
<https://www.nerc.com/pa/RAPA/ra/
Reliability%20Assessments%20DL/NERC_Long%20Term%20Reliability%20Assessment_2024.pdf>  
(“United States electricity demand is expected to grow at an extraordinary pace, due, in large part, 
to the rapid growth of large loads. According to NERC, demand growth is now higher than at any 
point in the past two decades.”). 

--- PAGE 9 ---
- 6 - 
In order to address the issues related to the addition of large new data center loads, 
the PJM Board of Managers created a Critical Issue Fast Path (“CIFP”) stakeholder process 
that began on August 18, 2025, and concluded on November 19, 2025. 
At present there is no explicit agreement on the fundamental premise of the CIFP 
discussions in PJM about the addition of large new data center loads. The solutions offered 
by PJM and most stakeholders simply assume that PJM must agree to add large loads to the 
system when the loads cannot be served reliably because PJM does not have the required 
capacity resources. From another perspective, the position of PJM and market participants 
assumes that PJM does not have the authority to require that large new data center loads 
can be served reliably before those loads are added to the system. 
Despite the fact that the premise is assumed in their proposals, PJM and market 
participants fail to explicitly state the premise, to discuss the premise or to provide any 
support for the premise. 
The Market Monitor believes that this premise is false. The Market Monitor believes 
that under current rules, PJM does have the authority to require that the loads can be 
served reliably before allowing the loads to be added to the system. As part of its obligation 
to maintain reliability, PJM has the authority to require large new data center loads to wait 
to be added to the system until the loads can be served reliably, meaning that there is 
adequate generation to serve it and adequate transmission to serve it. PJM has the authority 
to create a load queue. 
The logic is simple. The question is clear. If PJM has an obligation to provide reliable 
service to all PJM loads, is it just and reasonable for PJM to add new loads that it cannot 
serve reliably?  
The answer to that question is no. 
PJM and market participants clearly recognize that the high level of new data center 
loads cannot now be served reliably. PJM’s Non Capacity Backed Load (“NCBL”) proposal 

--- PAGE 10 ---
- 7 - 
made it clear that such loads would be subject to mandatory curtailments because there is 
not enough capacity to serve them.16 Most of the other CIFP proposals include provisions 
for curtailments of the new loads for the same reasons. None of the proposals have 
addressed the fact that PJM does not have the authority or the capability to order or enforce 
curtailments. Under all these proposals, PJM will be in the position of recommending the 
allocation of load curtailments rather than ensuring reliable service for all customers. 
Given the failure to explicitly establish a basis for the fundamental premise, it is not 
possible for PJM to address the issue of large new data center load additions without an 
answer from the Commission. 
It is not just and reasonable to have this level of uncertainty about the meaning of 
the Market Rules and in PJM’s interpretation of its own Market Rules when billions of 
dollars of costs for PJM customers are at stake and the process for interconnecting large 
new data center loads is at issue. 
                                                          
16  
See also PJM. CIFP. Pilong, Chris “Additional Large Load Challenges: Peak vs. Shoulder Seasons &Gen 
Outage 
Scheduling” 
(Oct. 
21, 
2025) 
<https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/committees-
groups/cifp-lla/2025/20251021/20251021-item-04---additional-large-load-challenges---pjm-
presentation.pdf> ; Interconnection Process Subcommittee ”Expansion of Provisional Service – Problem 
Statement,” 
(Nov. 
24, 
2025) 
<https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/committees-groups/
subcommittees/ips/2025/20251124/20251124-item-05a-----expansion-of-provisional-service---
problem-statement.pdf> ; CIFP, Bresler, Stu “Large Load Additions PJM Conceptual Proposal and 
Request for Member Feedback,” (Aug. 18, 2025) <https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/committees-
groups/cifp-lla/2025/20250818/20250818-item-03---pjm-conceptual-proposal-and-request-for-
member-feedback---presentation.pdf>; CIFP. Horger, Tim ”Large Load Additions PJM CIFP initial 
proposal and Alternatives considered,” (Sept. 15. 2025) <https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/
committees-groups/cifp-lla/2025/20250915/20250915-item-07---pjm-initial-proposal-and-
alternatives-considered---pjm-presentation.pdf>; Resource Adequacy Analysis Subcommittee , 2025 
PJM Effective Load Carrying Capability and Reserve Requirement Study (ELCC/RRS) at Table 4 (Oct, 22 
2025) <https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/planning/res-adeq/elcc/2025-pjm-elcc-rrs.pdf>,  PJM 
Interconnection, L.L.C., Motion to Intervene and Comments of PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. Docket No. 
ER26-444-000 (Nov. 21, 2025). 

--- PAGE 11 ---
- 8 - 
It would make the task of the PJM Board of Managers significantly more 
manageable if the Commission would indicate that the Commission intends to rule on this 
Complaint and then rules on this Complaint in the near future. 
II. COMPLAINT 
A. PJM Has Existing Authority to Address the Reliability and Affordability 
Impacts of Large New Interconnecting Data Center Loads. 
 Reliable service should be clearly and explicitly defined to include both reliable 
transmission service, and enough capacity to serve the load reliably plus a reserve margin. 
That is the only logical definition of reliable service. Interconnecting large new data center 
loads when adequate capacity is not available is not providing reliable service. The 
obligation to provide service is the obligation to provide reliable service. The obligation to 
provide service is not met if customers are simply interconnected without adequate 
resources to meet their demand. 
It is essential that there be a clear path for the interconnection of large new data 
center loads and the provision of reliable service to large new data center loads. All loads 
should be served. All loads should be served reliably. The process for adding large data 
center loads should be transparent. All loads should benefit from competitive markets. All 
loads should have equal access to the transmission system. All loads should be treated as 
full transmission customers. All loads and all generation are and should be on the grid and 
in the markets. The grid is highly interconnected. 
PJM is assigned the responsibility to maintain reliability in the PJM region.17 PJM is 
recognized by NERC as responsible for the PJM Control Area.18 One of the stated purposes 
                                                          
17  
See OA § 10.4(iv) (“The Office of the Interconnection … shall…[c]omply with NERC, and 
Applicable Regional Entity operation and planning standards, principles and guidelines…” 
18  
See OATT § 1 (Definitions O-P-Q, “PJM Control Area”). 

--- PAGE 12 ---
- 9 - 
of a Control Area is to provide sufficient generating capacity to maintain operating reserves 
in accordance with Good Utility Practice.19 20 
PJM’s authority to add large new data center loads only when they can be served 
reliably as defined both by transmission and capacity adequacy is based on the resource 
adequacy rules in the RAA and on the RTEP rules in Schedule 6 to the PJM Operating 
Agreement (“OA”). No rule authorizes PJM to provide additional electric service that it 
knows or should know cannot be reliably provided, while meeting its obligations to 
existing customers. 
B. PJM Should Be Directed to Exercise Its Existing Authority Consistent with Its 
Obligations to Engage in System Planning, Protect Resource Adequacy, and to 
Ensure Just, Reasonable and Non-Discriminatory Prices for Its Existing and 
New Customers. 
PJM is not required to add large new data center loads when the loads cannot be 
served reliably consistent with the standards defined in the PJM Market Rules. However, 
the positions presented in the CIFP stakeholder process have clarified that PJM and many 
stakeholders are not willing to state that PJM has such authority. The positions taken in the 
CIFP stakeholder process are based on the unstated and unsupported premise that PJM 
does not have such authority. 
Whether or not the Market Monitor is correct in its interpretation of PJM’s authority 
under the current rules, more explicit rules are plainly needed in order to remove confusion 
and to provide PJM the tools to protect resource adequacy and to ensure just and 
                                                          
19  
See RAA Art. 1 (Control Area). 
20  
See OA § 1 (Definitions G-H) “Good Utility Practice” shall mean any of the practices, methods and 
acts engaged in or approved by a significant portion of the electric utility industry during the 
relevant time period, or any of the practices, methods and acts which, in the exercise of reasonable 
judgment in light of the facts known at the time the decision was made, could have been expected 
to accomplish the desired result at a reasonable cost consistent with good business practices, 
reliability, safety and expedition.); see also RAA Art. 1. 

--- PAGE 13 ---
- 10 - 
reasonable capacity prices and to ensure that there is a clear path to provide for the reliable 
interconnection of large new data center loads. 
PJM cannot both meet its basic responsibilities under the OA and the RAA, and 
ignore resource adequacy when serving large new data center loads. It is implicit, if not 
explicit, that PJM cannot take actions, including the interconnection of large new data 
center loads, that PJM knows would compromise the reliability of the PJM Control Area. 
Explicit rules would build upon, clarify and provide greater detail regarding PJM’s existing 
authority to provide reliable interconnection or transmission service to large new data 
center loads only when they can be served reliably. 
This Complaint seeks an order finding that PJM has the authority to add large new 
data center loads only when they can be served reliably as defined both by transmission 
and capacity adequacy, and directing PJM to file tariff language stating this explicitly. The 
Complaint also seeks an order finding that PJM’s failure to clarify and enforce its existing 
rules and to protect reliable and affordable service in PJM is unjust and unreasonable. 
This Complaint is consistent with the objectives of the ANOPR but recognizes that 
PJM markets face an urgent need for immediate clarification of PJM’s authority over the 
interconnection of large new data center loads.  
III. RULE 206 REQUIREMENTS 
A. Rule 206(b)(1): Action or Inaction Alleged To Violate Statutory Standards or 
Regulatory Requirements 
For the reasons set forth in Section II, PJM is not exercising its authority to add large 
new data center loads only when they can be served reliably as defined both by 
transmission and capacity adequacy. 
B. Rule 206(b)(2): Legal Bases for Complaint 
The legal bases for this Complaint are set forth in detail in Section II. 

--- PAGE 14 ---
- 11 - 
C. Rules 206(b)(3) and 206(b)(4): Issues Presented as They Relate to the 
Complainant and Quantification of Financial Impact on Complainant 
The indicated issues are addressed in Section II. 
D. Rule 206(b)(5): Nonfinancial Impacts on Complainant 
The indicated impacts are addressed in Section II. 
A.  Rule 206(b)(6): Related Proceedings 
Complainant is aware that there are pending proceedings that may be considered to 
be directly related to the issues raised in this Complaint. There is a potential overlap of 
issues related to the Commission’s investigation of large load co-locations in Docket No. 
EL25-29 in which some generation owners want the authority to remove their resources 
from the market in order to serve data center load and impose the reliability issues on other 
market participants. The ANOPR and any resultant NOPR and rule may in the future 
broadly address some of the issues raised in the Complaint.  
B. Rule 206(b)(7): Specific Relief Requested 
This Complaint seeks an order finding that PJM has the authority to add large new 
data center loads only when they can be served reliably as defined both by transmission 
and capacity adequacy and directing PJM to file tariff language stating this explicitly. The 
Complaint also seeks an order finding that PJM’s failure to clarify and enforce its existing 
rules and to protect reliable and affordable service in PJM is unjust and unreasonable. 
A. Rule 206(b)(8): Documents that Support the Complaint 
This pleading supports the complaint. 
B. Rule 206(b)(9): Dispute Resolution 
The Market Monitor has not contacted the Enforcement Hotline or Dispute 
Resolution Service or made use of the tariff-based dispute resolution mechanisms. Such 
mechanisms are neither intended nor appropriate for resolving disputes of this nature. 
C. Rule 206(b)(10): Form of Notice 
A form of notice suitable for publication in the Federal Register is attached. 

--- PAGE 15 ---
- 12 - 
D. Rule 206(c): Service on Respondent 
The Market Monitor certifies that copies of this Complaint were served by email on 
Respondent. 
IV. COMMUNICATIONS 
All communications with respect to this pleading and in connection with this 
proceeding should be addressed to the following: 
Joseph E. Bowring21 
Independent Market Monitor for PJM 
President 
Monitoring Analytics, LLC 
2621 Van Buren Avenue, Suite 160 
Eagleville, Pennsylvania 19403 
(610) 271‐8051 
joseph.bowring@monitoringanalytics.com 
Jeffrey W. Mayes22 
 
General Counsel 
Monitoring Analytics, LLC 
2621 Van Buren Avenue, Suite 160 
Eagleville, Pennsylvania 19403 
(610) 271‐8053 
jeffrey.mayes@monitoringanalytics.com 
 
 
 
                                                          
21  
Designated to receive service. 
22 
Designated to receive service. 

--- PAGE 16 ---
- 13 - 
V.  CONCLUSION 
The Market Monitor respectfully requests that the Commission afford due 
consideration to the arguments raised in this Complaint as the Commission resolves the 
issues raised in this proceeding. 
 
Joseph E. Bowring 
Independent Market Monitor for PJM 
President 
Monitoring Analytics, LLC 
2621 Van Buren Avenue, Suite 160 
Eagleville, Pennsylvania 19403 
(610) 271‐8051 
joseph.bowring@monitoringanalytics.com 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jeffrey W. Mayes 
 
General Counsel 
Monitoring Analytics, LLC 
2621 Van Buren Avenue, Suite 160 
Eagleville, Pennsylvania 19403 
(610) 271‐8053 
jeffrey.mayes@monitoringanalytics.com 
 
Dated: November 25, 2025

--- PAGE 17 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attachment

--- PAGE 18 ---
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Independent Market Monitor for PJM 
 
 v. 
 
PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
 
 
 
Docket No. EL26-___-000 
 
NOTICE OF COMPLAINT 
(____, 2025) 
Take notice that on November 25, 2025, pursuant to section 206 of the Rules and Practice and 
Procedure of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Commission), 18 CFR § 385.206 (2011), 
Monitoring Analytics, LLC, acting in its capacity as the Independent Market Monitor for PJM 
(Complainant) filed a formal complaint against PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (Respondent) requesting that 
the Commission issue an order finding that PJM has the authority to add large new data center loads only 
when they can be served reliably as defined both by transmission and capacity adequacy and directing 
PJM to file tariff language stating this explicitly, and, further, finding that PJM’s failure to clarify and 
enforce its existing rules and to protect reliable and affordable service in PJM is unjust and unreasonable. 
The Complainant states that copies of the complaint were served on representatives of the 
Respondent. 
Any person desiring to intervene or to protest this filing must file in accordance with Rules 211 
and 214 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Procedure (18 CFR 385.211, 385.214). Protests will 
be considered by the Commission in determining the appropriate action to be taken, but will not serve to 
make protestants parties to the proceeding. Any person wishing to become a party must file a notice of 
intervention or motion to intervene, as appropriate. The Respondent’s answer and all interventions, or 
protests must be filed on or before the comment date. The Respondent’s answer, motions to intervene, 
and protests must be served on the Complainants. 
The Commission encourages electronic submission of protests and interventions in lieu of paper 
using the “eFiling” link at http://www.ferc.gov. Persons unable to file electronically should submit an 
original and 14 copies of the protest or intervention to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 888 
First Street, NE, Washington, DC 20426. 
This filing is accessible on-line at http://www.ferc.gov, using the “eLibrary” link and is available 
for review in the Commission’s Public Reference Room in Washington, DC. There is an “eSubscription” 
link on the web site that enables subscribers to receive email notification when a document is added to a 
subscribed 
docket(s). 
For 
assistance 
with 
any 
FERC 
Online 
service, 
please 
email 
FERCOnlineSupport@ferc.gov, or call (866) 208-3676 (toll free). For TTY, call (202) 502-8659. 
Comment Date: 5:00 pm Eastern Time on __, 2025. 
Debbie-Anne A. Reese,  
Secretary 

--- PAGE 19 ---
Attachment B - 
IMM CIFP Executive Summary

--- PAGE 20 ---
 
© Monitoring Analytics 2025 | www.monitoringanalytics.com 
DATE: 
November 10, 2025 
TO: 
CIFP-LLA 
FROM: 
PJM IMM. 
SUBJECT: 
Executive Summary 
The current tight/short conditions in the PJM Capacity Market are almost entirely the result of 
large data center load additions, both actual historical and forecast.1 2 The current supply of 
capacity in PJM is not adequate to meet the demand from large data center loads and will not 
be adequate in the foreseeable future. There is a market solution to the issues created by the 
addition of unprecedented amounts of large data center loads that does not require a massive 
wealth transfer. That solution is to require large data center loads to bring their own new 
generation. It is essential to have a pragmatic market solution that allows data centers to come 
to market as quickly as feasible and that is consistent with and sustains efficient and 
competitive PJM markets rather than to create the conditions for a return to cost of service 
regulation.  
It should not be assumed that PJM is required to allow the interconnection of large loads that 
cannot be served reliably. The result of such a path would be an unreliable system that imposes 
costs on all the other PJM customers. That assumption is the premise on which the other CIFP-
LLA options are based. If PJM does not believe that PJM has the authority to implement the 
requirement that new large loads will not be interconnected if the loads cannot be served 
reliably, PJM should file with FERC to ask for clarification. The requirement is consistent with, 
and required by, the definition of just and reasonable rates. 
The solution is not to create reliability issues and wealth transfer issues by clearing the capacity 
market at the maximum price and at a quantity less than the reliability requirement. Status quo, 
co-location, cost of service, and demand side options all ignore the real issue and exacerbate 
reliability issues and customer cost issues. The options that accept the premise that PJM must 
interconnect new large data center loads that cannot be served reliably means by definition that 
reliability will be degraded. PJM will be in the position of allocating blackouts rather than 
ensuring reliability. 
PJM should not permit the interconnection of large new data center loads if they cannot be 
served reliably. That means that the supply of capacity must be adequate to meet the total load 
                                                     
1  
See, “Analysis of the 2025/2026 RPM Base Residual Auction - Part G Revised,” 
<https://www.monitoringanalytics.com/reports/Reports/2025/IMM_Analysis_of_the_2025 
2026_RPM_Base_Residual_Auction_Part_G_20250603_Revised.pdf> (June 3, 2025). 
2  
See “Analysis of the 2026/2027 RPM Base Residual Auction - Part A,” (“Part A”) (October 1, 2025) 
<https://www.monitoringanalytics.com/reports/Reports/2025/IMM_Analysis_of_the_20262027_RP
M_Base_Residual_Auction_Part_A_20251001.pdf> . 

--- PAGE 21 ---
 
© Monitoring Analytics 2025 | www.monitoringanalytics.com 
2 
including the large new data center loads consistent with the defined reliability requirement. 
In order to implement this approach, PJM should establish an interconnection queue for large 
new data center loads. Requested interconnections would be studied for both transmission 
system reliability and for capacity reliability. Loads would not be permitted to interconnect 
unless there is adequate capacity to serve them reliably. If large new data center loads want an 
expedited interconnection process, loads should be required to bring their own new generation. 
The market solution is to require new large data center loads to bring their own new generation 
with locational and temporal characteristics matched to their load profile. The generation must 
be able to serve the actual hourly load of the data centers without transmission constraints. The 
generation must be deliverable to the system and deliverable to the new load. The generation 
must match the energy requirements of the data centers for all hours of the year. The new 
generation should not be an existing capacity resource. The added capacity would equal the 
load plus the required reserve margin. In the absence of that requirement, some or all of the 
costs of serving the new large data center loads would be imposed on other customers.  The 
additional new generation would be UCAP MW defined by ELCC. ELCC ratings are revised 
every year. The data center load should be responsible for covering any shortfall in UCAP 
capacity resulting from lower ELCC ratings. 
PJM would establish an expedited interconnection process for the new generation and for the 
new load. Both would be added to the system at the same time in order to minimize the impacts 
on other customers. The large new data center loads and their new generation would be studied 
and interconnected as quickly as possible. This requires cooperation and coordination among 
PJM, transmission owners, EDCs and state regulatory authorities. 
While improving the load forecasting process is an important goal, simply improving the load 
forecasting process does not eliminate the issues created by the interconnection of large new 
data center loads without matching generation. Even if the load forecast were perfect, the 
impact on reliability issues would remain. The load forecasting process will remain 
significantly uncertain regardless of any improvements. The uncertainty in the current load 
forecasting process that results from the uncertainty about large new data center load additions 
would be eliminated by the bring your own new  generation option. If the data centers do bring 
their own generation but the data centers do not materialize, the system is better off and there 
is no harm from the incorrect forecast. The bring your own new generation option requires a 
financial and physical commitment to the reliability of the grid that eliminates the current 
concerns about the forecasting process. 
One of the many issues that have not been addressed to date and would not be addressed by 
other options is whether Part V (RMR) obligations would be incurred in order to serve large 
new data center loads. This includes Part V RMR obligations and Section 202(c) obligations. 
Such obligations would not be incurred under the bring your own new generation option. Such 

--- PAGE 22 ---
 
© Monitoring Analytics 2025 | www.monitoringanalytics.com 
3 
obligations would be incurred under the other options. The RMR cost is another significant 
subsidy that other load could be required to pay to support large data center load additions. 
All of the currently identified options require PJM to plan the transmission system to meet large 
data center loads consistent with the RTEP and require all customers to pay an allocated share 
of the transmission upgrades required to serve large data center load additions. 
The bring your own new generation option will also reduce the impact on the energy market 
costs of all other PJM customers that would result from proposals that do not include new 
generation. 
Demand side options, including DR and PRD, are not equivalent to new generation. If there 
were to be a demand side option, the new large data centers would have to agree to be 
interrupted whenever capacity is needed to serve the other loads that paid for capacity, at a 
reasonable energy price and not limit interruptions to emergencies or to the limited run hours 
of backup generation. Those non-limited interruptions could be frequent given that current 
forecasts for additional new large data center load are approximately 30,000 MW.3 Demand 
side resources are not subject to market power mitigation and thus large new data center loads 
if defined as demand resources could exercise market power in the capacity and energy 
markets.  
The $1,849 per MWh PRD strike price cap is well above typical energy market clearing prices. 
This enables economic withholding of the PRD MW and means that the PRD are only illusory 
demand resources. Any demand side solution must be premised on performance  based 
compensation tied to actual, verifiable load reductions coupled with a strike price cap and 
availability that meaningfully affects real time demand. While demand resources dispatched 
during a PAI continue to be subject to Non-Performance Assessment charges, demand 
resources dispatched outside of a PAI are not subject to any event specific penalties.4 CSPs may 
elect to use performance data from a Load Management event that was not subject to a Non-
Performance Assessment (a non-PAI LM event) as performance data for a PJM zonal test event.5 
The ability for test performance to be a substitute for event performance, coupled with the 
absence of nonperformance penalties, weakens the incentive to perform during non-PAI 
events. In their current and proposed forms, demand side solutions offer no viable substitution 
for generation capacity resources. 
                                                     
3  
See 
PJM. 
2025 
PJM 
Long-Term 
Load 
Forecast 
Report 
<https://www.pjm.com/-
/media/DotCom/library/reports-notices/load-forecast/2025-load-report.pdf> (January 24, 2025). 
4  
“PJM Manual 18: PJM Capacity Market,” § 8.6, Rev. 61 (July 23, 2025). 
5  
“PJM Manual 18: PJM Capacity Market,” § 8.7, Rev. 61 (July 23, 2025). 

--- PAGE 23 ---
 
© Monitoring Analytics 2025 | www.monitoringanalytics.com 
4 
The Market Monitor recommends that new data center load be required to bring their own new 
generation. If that recommendation were adopted, the reliability and market price impacts of 
data center load growth on other customers would be limited, although the existing impact of 
the already embedded data center load would remain. In addition, the impact of the uncertain 
forecast of data center load on other customers would be limited or eliminated, and the slower 
underlying dynamic of organic load growth and incentives would play out.6 Under this option, 
data centers would enter into bilateral contracts with developers to build generation with 
locational and temporal characteristics reasonably matched to their load profile. The capacity 
would be offered into and clear in the PJM Capacity Market. The load would be included in 
total PJM load. The generation would be subject to the market seller offer caps (MSOC) for 
existing generation. Both the data center load and the associated generation would have an 
expedited queue option that would permit both the load and the generation to be added 
without delays. 
It has been asserted that requiring large new data center loads to bring their own new 
generation would be discriminatory. The relevant standard for prohibited discrimination is 
unduly discriminatory.7 It is not unduly discriminatory to identify the class of large data 
centers and impose requirements on that class that match the impact of that class on all other 
customers. It would be unduly discriminatory to all other customers, from the smallest 
residential customer to the largest industrial customer, to allow large data centers to add 
massive amounts of load to the system that cannot be served reliably with resulting price 
impacts and reliability impacts on those other customers. Preventing undue discrimination 
requires that data center loads bring their own new generation. 
It is not an overstatement to assert that the ongoing addition of large data center loads will put 
PJM competitive markets at risk unless there is a solution that requires large data center loads 
to pay for the costs that they would otherwise impose on other customers. This does not mean 
just the costs of a substation or a large financial commitment to purchase power. Bringing the 
new generation needed to meet the data center load is a long term investment required for 
reliable service that signals that data centers are in the markets for the long haul and committed 
to the competitive market design. The other options put PJM competitive markets at risk. 
                                                     
6  
See “Pre Technical Conference Comments of the Independent Market Monitor for PJM,” Meeting 
the Challenge of Resource Adequacy in Regional Transmission Organization and Independent System 
Operator Regions, Docket No. AD25-7. 
7  
See Federal Power Act § 205, 16 U.S.C. § 824d(b) (“No public utility shall, with respect to any 
transmission or sale subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission, (1) make or grant any undue 
preference or advantage to any person or subject any person to any undue prejudice or 
disadvantage, or (2) maintain any unreasonable difference in rates, charges, service, facilities, or in 
any other respect, either as between localities or as between classes of service.”). 

--- PAGE 24 ---
 
© Monitoring Analytics 2025 | www.monitoringanalytics.com 
5 
 
