--- PAGE 1 ---
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System 
Docket Number: RM26-4-000 
 
 
INITIAL COMMENTS OF IRON MOUNTAIN DATA CENTERS 
 
Iron Mountain Data Centers, LLC (“Iron Mountain”) respectfully submits the following 
initial comments regarding the Secretary of Energy’s (“Secretary”) October 23, 2025 proposed 
advance notice of proposed rulemaking (“proposed ANOPR”) under section 403 of the 
Department of Energy Organization Act. On October 27, 2025, the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission (“FERC” or “Commission”) issued its Notice Inviting Comments (“Notice”) and on 
November 7, 2025 issued its Notice Granting Extension of Time (“Extension Notice”). 
Iron Mountain is a provider of colocation data center services. In connection with these 
business operations, Iron Mountain, through its affiliates, owns and operates data centers and 
related infrastructure throughout the United States and around the world and is currently 
developing new data centers that will interconnect to the United States interstate transmission grid. 
Overall, Iron Mountain advocates for policy initiatives that enhance the flexible deployment of 
data center infrastructure to support our growing digital economy. Iron Mountain also supports the 
principle of paying its fair share and not creating a cost shift for other customers. 
I. 
SUPPORT MOVING PROPOSED ANOPR GOING FORWARD 
Iron Mountain largely supports the Commission expeditiously moving the Secretary’s 
proposed ANOPR forward to a NOPR and eventually a FERC order. As set forth in the Secretary’s 
October 23, 2025 filing, invoking limited Commission jurisdiction over the interconnection of 
large loads to the transmission system is in line with recent FERC orders on the interconnection 

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
 
of generation resources and regulating transmission under the Federal Power Act. The proposed 
ANOPR lays out a framework that, if implemented, would provide Iron Mountain and other 
similarly situated customers enhanced flexibility when interconnecting to the interstate 
transmission grid. Furthermore, the proposed ANOPR does not interfere with state jurisdiction as 
required under the Federal Power Act since states and regulated public utilities will still be allowed 
to charge its retail customers just and reasonable rates, while FERC exercises its role to regulate 
the bulk transmission system. If done correctly, facilitating large loads to interconnect under 
federal regulation would provide efficient and cost-effective processes that result in fair cost 
allocation for all electric customers. This could lead to large load customers being able to access 
wholesale markets with FERC oversight and provide better overall load forecasting.  
In addition, existing interconnection agreements should be exempted from actions the 
Commission orders as part of this docket and any new orders should be prospective.   
II. 
FEDERAL CUSTOMER INTERCONNECTION PRINCIPLES 
Iron Mountain supports the proposed ANOPR because it would provide nationwide 
process standardization and certainty with the potential for speed to power. It also supports federal 
and state initiatives to align generation and transmission and build new resources. Given the 
plethora of comments the Commission is likely to review in response to the Notice and that at this 
stage, the question before FERC is whether to move forward to a full NOPR, Iron Mountain sets 
forth the principles that the Commission should take into account. 
1)  
Find preferred solutions to interconnecting large loads timely. 
2)  
Focus on cost allocation that is fair for all. 
3) 
In areas with existing available generation and transmission, recover costs through 
just and reasonable rates instead of deploying capital for collateral and other risk instruments. 
4) 
Continue to develop rationale solutions that result in savings for all customers 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
 
through customer owned resources, load flexibility and facilitating speed to power. 
The proposed ANOPR presents an opportunity to study generation and transmission 
concurrently. When reviewing the Secretary’s proposal, the Commission should take lessons 
learned from MISO and SPP to expedite generator interconnections, allow cluster studies and 
study transmission projects across Regional Transmission Organizations (“RTOs”). For example, 
MISO’s recently approved Expedited Resource Addition Study (“ERAS”) process provides a 
targeted solution to get needed generation resources interconnected and online to meet the same 
load challenges as justification for the proposed ANOPR. These processes have allowed generators 
to connect to the grid faster and provide the necessary energy and capacity to power the digital 
energy economy. This analysis should be broadened for the interconnection of large loads to 
include batteries, demand response, pipelines and other tools that can facilitate expedited resource 
additions. If the proposed ANOPR is broadened, large load customers could have other 
mechanisms to accommodate their growing energy demands. 
This expanded analysis should be coupled with cost allocation models that facilitate 
deploying capital to projects instead of risk products. In many jurisdictions, utilities are requiring 
large loads to post collateral and other financial instruments for the length of electric service 
agreements based on the premise that it mitigates risk. This unnecessarily ties up capital at a time 
when it should be deployed on new infrastructure and resources. Allowing large load customers to 
directly pay for these transmission and generation investments would provide a more efficient use 
of capital while at the same time also derisking utilities and other load serving entities. Shifting 
capital from collateral to investments would benefit all ratepayers through enhanced and expedited 
grid investments, correct cost allocation and revenues that can be spread to all customer classes.   
Finally, the Commission should consider how the proposed ANOPR will incorporate Grid 

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
 
Enhancing Technologies (“GETs”)1 such as long duration storage. By incorporating GETs, the 
Commission would be facilitating grid planners understanding of additional resources that can 
maximize and optimize the grid. Iron Mountain is a conditional recipient of a grant as part of the 
Department of Energy’s (“DOE”) Grid Resilience and Innovation Partnerships program.2 Through 
this program, one of Iron Mountain’s options is to deploy a 115MW two-hour battery in the 
Commonwealth of Virginia. The goal is to demonstrate batteries as a GET and demonstrate the 
opportunities for data centers to be flexible grid resources. Iron Mountain has encountered 
potential limitations with state regulated interconnection and tariff processes that effectively 
remove economic incentives to manage load and during peak grid demands – a benefit for all 
utilities and customers. The proposed ANOPR could be improved by allowing large load 
customers to pay directly for improvements on the interstate transmission grid, including GETs, 
instead of having these costs recovered through retail utility minimum demand charges or other 
tariff mechanisms that limit the utilization of these investments. Overall, the Commission should 
continue to provide additional opportunities for the development of GETs and other investments 
to make grid connections more flexible. 
III. 
TREATMENT OF EXTREMELY LARGE LOADS 
As discussed in these comments Iron Mountain supports the proposed ANOPR. However, 
there are areas where extremely large loads will fundamentally have significant impacts on the 
bulk power system and should be treated differently. The proposed ANOPR currently would apply 
to all large loads over 20 MW. In addition, Iron Mountain would propose there be a different 
 
1 https://inl.gov/content/uploads/2024/03/POWER_Grid-Enhancing-Technologies.pdf 
2https://www.ironmountain.com/data-centers/about/news-and-
events/news/2024/august/data-centers-imdc-gets-grant-of-50m-for-developing-on-site-battery-
storage-by-va-doe 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
 
interconnection path for large loads in a single area that are over a percentage threshold of the host 
utility’s peak load or the local balancing authority’s capacity. These extremely large loads should 
be treated separately because normal transmission and generation planning processes could be very 
challenging to accommodate the impacts on the bulk power system.  
CONCLUSION 
As detailed above, Iron Mountain supports the proposed ANOPR and looks forward to 
working with the Secretary, the Commission and other stakeholders in achieving the principles set 
forth in these comments.  
Dated:  November 21, 2025 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
  
 
David R. Moeller (#0287295) 
 
FREDRIKSON & BYRON, P.A. 
60 South Sixth Street, Suite 1500 
Minneapolis, MN  55402-4400 
Telephone: (612) 492-7000 
Fax: (612) 492-7077 
 
Attorney for Iron Mountain 
 
