--- PAGE 1 ---
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
COMMENTS OF THE AMERICAN PUBLIC POWER 
ASSOCIATION 
The American Public Power Association (APPA) submits these comments in 
response to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (Commission) October 27, 2025, 
notice inviting comment on the Secretary of Energy’s proposed Advance Notice of 
Proposed Rulemaking (ANOPR). 
Public power utilities across the nation are expanding their capacity to serve new 
data center loads by building grid infrastructure, creating innovative rate structures, and 
partnering with data center developers. APPA applauds the Commission for its extensive 
efforts in recent years to address issues associated with large data center loads and for its 
careful analysis—and respect for—the Federal Power Act’s clear jurisdictional lines that 
reserve authority for retail transactions to state and local regulatory authorities. The 
ANOPR also reflects that same respect for jurisdictional boundaries, stating its intention 
that the Commission avoid even arguably impinging on state and local jurisdiction. 
As the Commission considers the appropriate action to take on the ANOPR, APPA 
urges the Commission to consider how to implement—and modify where necessary—the 
ANOPR’s principles in a way that achieves two goals: (1) continuing to allow relevant 
retail regulatory authorities to oversee the rates, terms, and conditions of retail service; and 

--- PAGE 2 ---
- 2 - 
 
(2) ensuring that existing customers do not bear increased cost or increased risk as a result 
of Commission-jurisdictional interconnection rules for large loads. 
Individual APPA members and groups representing segments of the public power 
community—including the Transmission Access Policy Study Group and Large Public 
Power Council—are filing comments in this docket that suggest specific ways to 
implement ANOPR’s principles to achieve the twin goals of respecting jurisdictional lines 
and protecting existing customers. The Commission should consider those 
recommendations. 
I. 
INTEREST OF APPA 
APPA is the voice of not-for-profit, community-owned utilities that power 2,000 
towns and cities nationwide. Public power utilities are in every state except Hawaii. They 
collectively serve over 55 million people in 49 states and five U.S. territories, and 
account for 15 percent of all sales of electric energy (kilowatt-hours) to end-use 
consumers. 
Public power utilities are load serving entities, with the primary goal of providing 
the communities they serve with safe, reliable electric service at the lowest reasonable 
cost, consistent with good environmental stewardship. This orientation aligns the interests 
of the utilities with the long-term interests of the residents and businesses in their 
communities. 
 
 

--- PAGE 3 ---
- 3 - 
 
II. 
COMMENTS 
A. 
Respecting Jurisdiction 
1. 
Any final Commission action should explicitly allow 
relevant retail regulatory authorities to continue regulating 
the rates, terms, and conditions of retail service, including 
allocation of costs for generation built to serve new large 
loads. 
The Federal Power Act limits the Commission’s jurisdiction to “transmission of 
electric energy in interstate commerce and the sales of such energy at wholesale in 
interstate commerce.”1 That jurisdiction extends “only to those matters which are not 
subject to regulation by the States.”2  For decades, the Commission has adhered to the 
principle, as articulated by the U.S. Supreme Court, that “FERC jurisdiction over the sale 
of power has been specifically confined to the wholesale market.”3 Thus retail sales and 
all associated terms and conditions—including the assessment of generation costs and 
establishment of minimum required contractual provisions—are reserved to state 
commissions.4  
Several states have exercised the authority reserved to them by the Federal Power 
Act to approve retail tariffs that govern the rates, terms, and conditions for serving new 
 
 
1 16 U.S.C. § 824(a). 
2 Id.; see also 16 U.S.C. § 824(b) (limiting jurisdiction to “transmission of electric energy in interstate 
commerce and to the sale of electric energy at wholesale in interstate commerce” but not to “any other sale 
of electric energy.”).   
3 New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1, 20 (2001). 
4 The Federal Power Act defines “state commission” as “the regulatory body of the State or municipality 
having jurisdiction to regulate rates and charges for the sale of electric energy to consumers within the State 
or municipality.” 16 U.S.C. § 796(15) (emphasis added).  

--- PAGE 4 ---
- 4 - 
 
large loads. Many public power communities have similarly adopted such retail tariffs. 
Each retail tariff differs in detail about how generation costs will be allocated to the new 
loads, the amount of up-front payments that must be made by the new load, minimum 
load obligations, and the duration of the commitment to take retail service. These retail 
tariffs have given clarity to data center developers in many parts of the country, which 
facilitates regulatory certainty and a helps create positive environment for investment. 
If the Commission exercises its authority to regulate the interconnection of large 
loads to Commission-jurisdictional transmission facilities, it must not preempt those 
efforts of retail regulators. In any final action on the ANOPR, the Commission should 
explicitly allow retail regulators to continue regulating the rates, terms, and conditions for 
retail service to large loads.  
2. 
Any final Commission action should not explicitly or 
implicitly mandate retail wheeling. 
The Federal Power Act prohibits the Commission from issuing an order requiring 
transmission of electric energy directly to an ultimate consumer.5 And it maintains “any 
authority of any State or local government under State law concerning the transmission of 
electric energy directly to an ultimate customer.”6 Thus, while some states have 
authorized retail wheeling, including for new large loads, the Commission may not 
require it. 
 
 
5 16 U.S.C. § 824k(h). 
6 Id. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
- 5 - 
 
If the Commission exercises its authority to regulate the interconnection of large 
loads to Commission-jurisdictional transmission facilities, it must clarify that it is not 
ordering any transmission provider to provide retail wheeling service. 
3. 
The Commission should continue to disclaim authority 
over the transmission component of bundled retail sales.  
In Order No. 888, the Commission prudently declined to exert authority over the 
transmission component of bundled retail sales, while reserving the issue of whether it 
had jurisdiction. The Supreme Court upheld the Commission’s decision, noting that it “is 
obvious that a federal order claiming jurisdiction over all retail transmissions [i.e., both 
bundled and unbundled transmission] would have even greater implications for the States' 
regulation of retail sales—a state regulatory power recognized by the same statutory 
provision that authorizes FERC's transmission jurisdiction.”7 
There is no need to revisit that prudent decision in this proceeding. Whatever final 
action the Commission takes on the ANOPR, it should limit the scope of that action to 
exclude transmission that is bundled with a retail sale. The Commission has facilitated 
the expansion of wholesale markets and open access transmission in most of the country 
without needing to test the limits of its jurisdiction over bundled transmission; it can 
similarly achieve the goals of facilitating large load interconnections without making this 
a test case.  
 
 
7 New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. at 28. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
- 6 - 
 
B. 
Protecting Existing Customers 
New large loads must pay their fair share of infrastructure costs that are needed to 
serve them. This principle is uncontroversial. But any final action that the Commission 
takes on the ANOPR (and any actions the Commission takes in related dockets) must 
include provisions that effectuate that principle. Otherwise, existing customers will bear 
the risk of increased costs or reduced reliability. Wholesale transmission customers in 
particular could be left shouldering massive costs if new large loads do not ultimately 
attain or maintain the level of electricity demand that is being forecasted.8 The risk of 
stranded costs must therefore be allocated to the entities that are causing the new 
investment. 
The ANOPR’s proposal to impose standardized study deposits, readiness 
requirements, and withdrawal penalties appears to be consistent with the objective of 
fairly allocating costs. But such commitments must be well-tailored to the specific risks 
posed by large loads and hybrid interconnections, and they must account for regional 
variations and variations in interconnection configurations.  
Similarly, the ANOPR’s proposal to allocate all network upgrade costs to newly 
interconnecting large loads would insulate existing customers from costs that would not 
be caused but for the new interconnection. But such a principle should not disrupt the 
existing, long-standing cost allocation mechanisms that exist for planning the overall 
 
 
8 Notably, wholesale transmission customers in some regions are already facing higher costs for resource 
adequacy based on forecasts of how new load will be added. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
- 7 - 
 
transmission system to meet the needs of load serving entities. And any crediting 
mechanism to return that money to interconnection customers should be structured in a 
way that holds other transmission customers harmless from stranded costs. 
III. 
CONCLUSION 
APPA appreciates the opportunity to comment on the ANOPR and urges the 
Commission to consider how any final action in this proceeding will respect jurisdictional 
boundaries and protect existing customers. 
 
Respectfully submitted,  
 
/s/ Latif M. Nurani  
Desmarie M. Waterhouse 
Latif M. Nurani 
AMERICAN PUBLIC POWER ASSOCIATION 
2451 Crystal Drive, Suite 1000 
Arlington, VA 22202 
(202) 467-2900 
Email: dwaterhouse@publicpower.org  
            lnurani@publicpower.org 
 
 
November 21, 2025 
 
 
 
