--- PAGE 1 ---
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
BEFORE THE  
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION  
  
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to  
the Interstate Transmission System
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
INITIAL COMMENTS OF  
AMAZON ENERGY LLC 
Pursuant to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (“Commission”) Notice Inviting 
Comments in the above-captioned proceeding, Amazon Energy LLC (“Amazon Energy”) submits these 
initial comments on the proposed advance notice of proposed rulemaking (“ANOPR”) issued by the 
Secretary of Energy on October 23, 2025.1   
Amazon Energy appreciates the Commission’s consideration of the important issues identified in 
the ANOPR, and the opportunity for Amazon Energy to provide input based on its relevant experience.  
Additionally, Amazon Energy thanks the Department of Energy for initiating a discussion on the need for 
timely, orderly, and non-discriminatory interconnection of large loads to the bulk electric system in a 
manner that respects jurisdictional boundaries.  Amazon Energy supports reforms that, done right, will help 
the United States connect new AI and advanced manufacturing investment quickly, while strengthening 
grid reliability and affordability for all customers.  Amazon Energy recognizes the challenges associated 
with the expected significant growth in electric demand and generation capacity due, in part, to critical AI 
workloads needed for national security and economic development, and to support the Administration’s 
efforts to achieve national energy dominance.2  The ANOPR is an important step in addressing those 
challenges.   
 
1  
Letter from Chris Wright, Secretary of Energy, Dep’t of Energy, to Hon. David Rosner, Chairman, et al., Fed. 
Energy Regulatory Comm’n, Oct. 23, 2025 (on file with the Fed. Energy Regulatory Comm’n, Docket No. RM26-
4-000).  
2   See 
America’s 
AI 
Action 
Plan 
at 
1, 
available 
at 
https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-
content/uploads/2025/07/Americas-AI-Action-Plan.pdf. 

--- PAGE 2 ---
Page 2 of 7 
Amazon Energy respectfully recommends that any future action by the Commission in this 
proceeding (i) apply only on a prospective basis, (ii) implement a fast-track for ready projects and advanced 
technologies to accelerate the processing of interconnection requests, and (iii) standardize milestones and 
requirements and enhance visibility to improve the processing of large load interconnections and, in turn, 
improve transmission system planning and development and load forecasting.   
I. 
COMMUNICATIONS 
Communications regarding this matter should be addressed to the following people, who also 
should be designated for service on the Commission’s official service list for this proceeding: 
William Friedman  
Senior Corporate Counsel  
Amazon Energy LLC  
wfried@amazon.com  
Andrew P. Mina 
David S. Shaffer 
Clarence R. Hawkes III 
Dentons US LLP 
1900 K Street NW 
Washington, D.C. 20006 
(202) 496-7286 
andrew.mina@dentons.com  
david.shaffer@dentons.com  
clarence.hawkes@dentons.com 
  
Counsel for Amazon Energy LLC 
 
Amazon Energy requests, to the extent necessary, that the Commission waive the requirements of 
Rule 203(b)3 to permit each person named above to be placed on the official service list to avoid delays in 
responding to official documents and communications. 
Amazon Energy is a wholly owned subsidiary of Amazon.com, Inc. and an affiliate of Amazon Data 
Services, Inc., a large load customer and data center operator in a number of jurisdictions throughout the United 
States.  
 
 
 
 
3  
18 C.F.R. § 385.203(b). 

--- PAGE 3 ---
Page 3 of 7 
II. 
INITIAL COMMENTS 
A. 
The Commission Should Not Apply Any Potential Reforms Retroactively to Large 
Load Projects Currently In Progress. 
 
 
The instant proceeding is the first step in the Commission’s consideration of initiating a rulemaking 
proceeding and, ultimately, issuing a final rule that would, as proposed, implement reforms to standardize 
procedures and agreements for large load interconnections to the bulk electric system.4  Amazon Energy 
supports efforts to establish a clear process for efficiently interconnecting large loads to the interstate 
transmission system.  The goal should be to remove any unnecessary delays and uncertainty that make it harder 
for utilities and grid operators to plan reliably and keep costs down for everyone.    
Amazon Energy respectfully urges the Commission to apply any new rules or policy changes adopted 
in this proceeding prospectively, and not to large load interconnection requests currently in progress under 
existing interconnection procedures.  Specifically, Amazon Energy proposes any new rules apply only to large 
load interconnection requests that, as of the effective date of the new rules, have not executed agreements that 
include a significant financial commitment to the interconnecting utility. 
Large load developers have expended significant time and resources developing new large load 
projects (e.g., completing feasibility and system impact studies, securing sites, permits, and long-lead 
equipment, and executing definitive agreements) and made substantial investments in reliance on existing 
interconnection rules and procedures.  Abruptly subjecting these in-progress projects to new requirements or 
study processes could upend their economics, cause substantial delay, or even force withdrawals, thereby 
undermining the goals of timely and orderly interconnection that the ANOPR seeks to advance.  Therefore, 
consistent with prior Commission policy to not disrupt projects currently in progress,5 and to ensure that no 
project currently in progress is adversely impacted by the adoption of new large load interconnection 
 
4  
See ANOPR at PP 1 and 12.  See id. at P 30 (seeking comment on “the treatment of large load interconnections 
that are already being studied for interconnection”). 
5  
See, e.g., Improvements to Generator Interconnection Procedures and Agreements, Order No. 2023, 184 FERC 
¶ 61,054 (2023), order on reh’g, Order No. 2023-A, 186 FERC ¶ 61,199 (2024) (establishing transitional serial 
studies, transitional cluster studies, and withdrawal options for interconnection customers already in the 
generation interconnection queue at the time of compliance). 

--- PAGE 4 ---
Page 4 of 7 
procedures, any reforms emerging from this proceeding should be implemented on a prospective basis, with 
appropriate grandfathering or transition mechanisms. 
B. 
The Commission Can Accelerate Large Load Interconnections by Requiring Fast-Track 
Processing for Ready Projects and the Use of Advanced Technologies. 
 
 
A stated objective of the ANOPR is to improve the timely and orderly interconnection of large loads.6  
Amazon Energy believes this can be achieved, in part, by (i) accelerating the processing of large load 
interconnection projects that demonstrate high readiness, and (ii) requiring the use of advanced technologies 
that can help streamline and expedite administratively burdensome interconnection study processes.   
 
Amazon Energy recommends that any rule adopted by the Commission governing the interconnection 
of large loads include mechanisms like those in Order No. 2023 to prioritize projects that are ready for 
interconnection.  Those reforms recognize that when speculative or non-viable projects clog the generation 
interconnection queue, they inhibit the advancement of truly ready projects, a dynamic that Order No. 2023 
sought to correct by incentivizing only viable projects to remain in the generation interconnection queue.7  
Similarly, with respect to large loads, Amazon Energy encourages the Commission to include in any rule a 
“fast track” or priority processing track for large load projects that can demonstrate a high degree of readiness 
(e.g., projects that have (i) committed customers, (ii) secured all necessary permits, (iii) site control, (iv) secured 
financing or corporate commitments, and/or (v) an executed service agreement).   
Additionally, Amazon Energy encourages the Commission to leverage technology and process 
innovations to automate and accelerate large load interconnections.  Large load interconnections involve 
intensive engineering analyses and coordination, which can become a bottleneck to the timely completion of 
large load interconnections.  The Commission should incentivize or require transmission providers to deploy 
modern software tools, such as advanced grid modeling and AI-driven analysis, that can conduct feasibility 
 
6  
See ANOPR at P 1. 
7  
See Order No. 2023 at PP 5, 509-12, 514-15 (2023).  P 5 discusses large generator interconnection queue backlogs 
and associated uncertainty and delays; PP 509-12 explicitly find that “speculative interconnection requests” and 
“overcrowded interconnection queues” cause study delays and explain that withdrawal penalties are intended to 
ensure projects are “commercially viable”; PP 514-15 describe how the penalty structure is designed to incentivize 
early withdrawal of “non-viable interconnection requests,” reducing late-stage withdrawals and restudies. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
Page 5 of 7 
and system impact studies more expeditiously and efficiently.  Amazon Energy emphasizes that greater 
automation is not a substitute for sound engineering judgment, but a way to expedite engineers’ and planners’ 
work by handling administratively burdensome tasks and analyses in hours or days rather than weeks or 
months.  By leveraging automation and enforcing readiness requirements, the Commission can (i) ensure that 
commercially viable large load projects will move forward expeditiously, and (ii) mitigate or eliminate 
inefficiencies, burdensome administrative tasks, and undue delays in the processing of large load 
interconnection requests.   
C. 
Standard Milestones and Requirements and Enhanced Visibility for Large Load 
Interconnections Will Improve Processing and Transmission System Planning and 
Development.  
 
 
 Amazon Energy supports the proposal in the ANOPR that, “like generating facilities, load and hybrid 
facilities should be subject to standardized study deposits, readiness requirements, and withdrawal penalties,” 
noting that “[t]hese provisions deter speculative projects and provide transmission providers with more useful 
information to more accurately forecast demand on their systems.”8  A major challenge in generation 
interconnection queues has been the high attrition rate of projects and the submission of multiple speculative 
generation interconnection requests.9  This pattern burdens the generation interconnection queue with non-
viable projects and triggers cascading restudies when those projects drop out of the queue.  Order No. 2023 
directly addressed this problem by implementing withdrawal penalties and stricter readiness requirements to 
incentivize only serious, viable projects to stay in the generation interconnection queue or to withdraw early if 
they are not ready.10   
 
8  
ANOPR at P 21. 
9  
See Electric Transmission Interconnection Queues, NAT’L CONF. OF STATE LEGISLATURES (updated Jan. 7, 2025), 
https://www.ncsl.org/energy/electric-transmission-interconnection-queues (last accessed Nov. 19, 2025); Joseph 
Rand, Status and Drivers of Generator Interconnection Backlogs, LAWRENCE BERKELEY NAT’L LAB. (June 12, 
2023), 
https://www.energy.gov/sites/default/files/2023-
07/Rand_Queued%20Up_2022_Tx%26Ix_Summit_061223.pdf (estimating over 70 percent of projects in 
generation interconnection queues are ultimately withdrawn or cancelled).   
10  See Order No. 2023 at PP 336-38, 454, 462-64, 509-13. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
Page 6 of 7 
Amazon Energy urges the Commission to consider imposing similar standardization and requirements 
here to ensure the timely and efficient processing of large load interconnection requests, particularly for 
interconnections within the same ISO/RTO.  For example, requiring large load interconnection customers to 
make upfront study deposits, demonstrate a degree of project readiness (e.g., site control or an executed 
facilities construction contract), and face withdrawal penalties if they exit after certain milestones will 
discourage non-viable or speculative large load requests.  Improving the caliber of projects at entry will allow 
the processing of large load interconnections to function more efficiently, with fewer late-stage withdrawals 
and cascading adverse effects for later large load interconnection requests.  Additionally, standardizing 
milestones and requirements for large load interconnections within a common ISO/RTO will lead to better 
transmission planning outcomes, and in turn, result in improved accuracy in load forecasting.    
 
In addition to upfront eligibility criteria, Amazon Energy recommends that the Commission direct 
transmission providers to report non-confidential, aggregated data on the processing of large load 
interconnection request outcomes, such as withdrawal rates, success rates, and processing times.  This 
information will allow for (i) more accurate transmission system and large load planning and development, and 
(ii) regulators and market participants to make more informed decisions regarding resource adequacy, load 
growth, and reliability.   
 
Improving the quality of large load interconnection requests through stricter criteria and milestones 
and enhanced visibility into the processing of large load interconnections through standardized reporting will 
result in market efficiencies, shorter development timelines, and lower costs for consumers.  
 D. 
Amazon Energy Supports Optionality for Large Load Interconnections. 
 
The ANOPR states that studying hybrid facilities based on the amount of injection and/or 
withdrawal rights “provides incentives for co-location with new generation facilities and ensures efficient 
buildout of the transmission system.”11  Amazon Energy supports co-location of large load projects.  
 
11  See ANOPR at P 22.  See id. at P 12 (defining hybrid facilities as load that seeks “to share a point of 
interconnection with new or existing generation facilities”). 

--- PAGE 7 ---
Page 7 of 7 
Amazon Energy also recognizes there may be benefits for all ratepayers to interconnecting large loads 
directly to the bulk electric system in coordination with the interconnection of generation facilities.  To that 
end, creating viable pathways to allow large load customers and generators to interconnect to the bulk 
electric system, and to study, model, and operate with some form of interrelationship would yield benefits 
for the bulk electric system as a whole, including reduced administration for utilities, RTOs/ISOs, and 
investors.  Nonetheless, as noted in its Post-Technical Conference Comments in Docket No. AD24-11-000, 
Amazon Energy supports solutions that provide the most flexibility to meet the needs of customers and 
businesses, which can include co-location.12  Therefore, in addition to the Commission taking prompt action 
in the instant proceeding, Amazon Energy respectfully encourages the Commission to expeditiously issue 
an order in the pending proceeding in Docket No. AD24-11-000, which would provide the industry with 
much needed guidance as to the viability of large loads co-locating at generating facilities going forward. 
III. 
CONCLUSION 
Amazon Energy respectfully requests that the Commission consider the comments above and factor 
them into its decision-making in the instant proceeding. 
Respectfully submitted,  
/s/ Andrew P. Mina  
Andrew P. Mina 
David S. Shaffer 
Clarence R. Hawkes III 
Dentons US LLP 
1900 K Street NW 
Washington, D.C. 20006 
(202) 496-7286 
andrew.mina@dentons.com  
david.shaffer@dentons.com  
clarence.hawkes@dentons.com 
 
Counsel for Amazon Energy LLC 
 
Dated: November 21, 2025 
 
12  Large Loads Co-Located at Generating Facilities, Post-Technical Conference Comments of Amazon Energy 
LLC, Docket No. AD24-11-000, at 1 (filed Dec. 9, 2024). 
