--- PAGE 1 ---
1 
DB03/0806654.0006/10507501.1 
BEFORE THE 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
  
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate 
Transmission System 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
COMMENTS OF THE LARGE PUBLIC POWER COUNCIL  
 
 
These comments are filed on behalf of the Large Public Power Council (“LPPC”) in 
support of the effort by the Department of Energy (“DOE”) to promote a consistent, nationwide 
approach to large load interconnection. LPPC asks that this be accomplished while respecting the 
role reserved under the Federal Power Act (“FPA”) to state authorities over retail service, of 
which large load is an increasing component. LPPC members fully support the build out of 
electric infrastructure in order to accommodate the growth of AI and associated data centers. 
LPPC is also acutely aware that this undertaking risks dramatic increases in already rising retail 
rates and urges the Commission to assure that state-based regulators will continue to have the 
authority to protect historical customers.                
INTRODUCTION AND EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
 
 
A. 
LPPC 
 
 
LPPC is an association of 29 of the nation's largest municipal and state-owned utilities, 
representing the larger, asset-owning members of the LPPC community and approximately 90% 
of the transmission assets owned by LPPC. Together, they serve 30.5 million American 
consumers across 23 states and territories. LPPC members are political subdivisions of the states 
in which they do business, within the meaning of FPA section 201(f),1 and accordingly are 
 
1 16 U.S.C. § 824(f).  

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
DB03/0806654.0006/10507501.1 
outside the scope of much of the authority exercised by the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission (“FERC” or “the Commission”). Located throughout the nation, many of LPPC’s 
members are transmission-owning members of independent system operators (“ISOs”) and 
regional transmission organizations (“RTOs”), while others are considering membership in 
regions of the nation in which ISOs/RTOs and other organized markets are being developed. 
 
B. 
Executive Summary    
 
 
LPPC supports expansion of the electric grid in order to enable data center growth and AI 
industry development. But expansion of the grid should not impose additional costs on pre-
existing native load, nor risk imposing the cost of stranded investment on traditional residential 
and commercial load, wholesale requirements customers, or transmission-dependent customers.  
LPPC urges DOE and FERC to recognize that state authorities play a primary role in facilitating 
needed investment while protecting consumers from rising costs and potential stranded costs 
associated with service to large loads.   
 
FERC should clarify that if it proceeds with a NOPR, a proposed rule would be limited to 
the terms of transmission interconnection. The Commission does not have authority to: (1) 
establish the terms and conditions of retail service to data centers, including the assessment of 
up-front generation costs to load and the nature of contractual commitments large load may be 
asked to make; or (2) mandate transmission service to end use customers (retail wheeling).  
 
 Further than this, jurisdiction under the FPA for the Commission to control the terms of 
large load interconnection is far from clear. A declaration that the Commission has jurisdiction 
over the transmission component of bundled retail sales is a questionable matter, and would have 
the likely unintended consequence of the Commission taking charge of the transmission cost 
component of retail sales rates, meaningfully diminishing state-based authority over retail rates.  

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
DB03/0806654.0006/10507501.1 
 
For these reasons, LPPC urges the Commission to consider fostering a consensus-based 
approach to large load interconnection protocols, which may serve as the basis for state-based 
regulatory approaches to large load. This would recognize the national implications of large load 
development, while respecting the role of state authorities over retail regulation. 
 
As to the 14 Principles outlined in the ANOPR, LPPC is generally supportive. LPPC 
believes that some modifications of the proposed principles are called for, and particularly 
emphasizes instances where the industry and data center development would be best served by 
leaving interconnection details to development on a regional basis, providing room for 
approaches that reflect regional characteristics.  
COMMENTS 
 
 A. 
The Scope of NOPR 
 
1. 
FERC Should Clarify That the ANOPR Addresses Only the Terms of 
Transmission Interconnection, and Would Not Affect the Terms and 
Conditions of Retail Service, Including the Allocation of Costs for 
Necessary Generation Investment to Large Load.   
 
 
At P. 15, the ANOPR asserts that the proposal does not “impinge on States’ authority 
over retail electricity sales by asserting jurisdiction over the interconnection of large loads to the 
transmission system.” The ANOPR further says (id.) that “nothing in the proposed reforms 
governs the siting, expansion, or modification of generation facilities.”   
 
LPPC asks the Commission to clarify that the ANOPR’s disclaimer reserving authority to 
states encompasses not only rates for direct retail sales but also the ability of Load Serving 
Entities (“LSEs”) to assess the cost of new generation needed to serve large data centers at the 
outset of service, and to require contractual commitments of specified length to assure cost 
recovery. LSEs may decide that front-loading the incremental cost of generation as a condition 
of service is essential to ensure that proposed data centers are committed to the projects for 

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
DB03/0806654.0006/10507501.1 
which interconnection is sought, and to guard against stranded cost being assessed to legacy 
commercial and residential load. Such safeguards are essential to the core mission of retail 
regulatory authorities. Contractual commitments of a specified length may serve a similar 
purpose.    
 
As a legal matter, the reservation of authority over retail sales to state regulatory 
authorities is clear and comprehensive. FPA section 201(a) stipulates that Federal regulation 
extends only to the “transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce and the sales of such 
energy at wholesale in interstate commerce.”2 The provision further states that Federal regulation 
shall extend only to those matters which are not subject to regulation by the States.”  Related, 
FPA section 201(b) stipulates that “[t]he provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the 
transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce and to the sale of electric energy at 
wholesale in interstate commerce, but…shall not apply to any other sale of electric energy….” 
As understood by FERC over the years, and by the Supreme Court in New York v. FERC, 535 
U.S. 1, 20 (2001), “FERC jurisdiction over the sale of power has been specifically confined to 
the wholesale market,” thereby excluding retail sales. FPA section 201(b) further specifies that 
FERC generally shall not have jurisdiction over “facilities used for the generation of electric 
energy or over facilities used in local distribution.” Taken together, these provisions and 
precedent establish that retail sales, and all associated terms and conditions, including the 
assessment of generation costs and contractual provisions such as the required contractual terms, 
are reserved to state-based regulations.         
Operating within these jurisdictional parameters, states grappling with dramatic data 
center development have been addressing the allocation of generation costs to data centers and 
 
2 16 U.S.C. § 824(a). 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
DB03/0806654.0006/10507501.1 
the establishment of long-term contractual commitments for large load developers.  Such 
requirements are within the ambit of state authority over retail sales and are designed to provide 
funding for the development of needed new generation, while protecting existing customers from 
cost increases that may result from cost subsidization and potential stranded cost recovery. In its 
recent resolution on the subject, the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners 
(“NARUC”) reports that “at least 20 states have approved or have pending large load tariffs or 
similar measures.”3 
 Illustrative of these programs, earlier this year, e.g., the Georgia Public Service 
Commission approved an integrated resource plan filed by Georgia Power that provides for 
customer specific assessments where demand is in excess of 100 MW, along with provisions for 
longer-term contractual agreements (between 5 and fifteen years) aimed at ensuring high usage 
customers will not be subsidized by traditional load.4  Regulators in Kansas and Michigan have 
approved similar rules calling for large loads to enter into longer term agreements and to pick up 
the cost of incremental generation investment they necessitate.5 A sampling of actions taken in 
other states reveals a range of similar efforts, with variations calibrated to the varied 
circumstances presented in each environment.6 LPPC members are undertaking similar efforts.  
 
3 See, Resolution Urging the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to Preserve and Affirm State Retail 
Regulatory Jurisdiction in its Large Load Interconnection Proceeding (November 12, 2025), 
4 See Georgia Pub. Serv. Co., Docket No. 44280, Order Approving Staff’s Recommendation for 2025 Alternative 
Community Charger Recommendations (Oct. 9, 2025).   
5 Evergy Kansas Metro, Inc., et. al., Docket No. 25-EKME-315-TAR, Order on Settlement Agreement (Nov. 11, 
2025); Consumers Energy Co., Case No. U-21859, Order of the Michigan Public Service Commission (Nov. 6, 
2025).  
6 For further example, West Virginia approved Appalachian Power Company and Wheeling Power Company 
Schedule Large Capacity Power Service (Schedule L.C.P.) which requires customers with at least 100 MW of 
maximum load requirements to agree to an initial contract term of at least 12 years, a small variation to that of 
Georgia Power Company, Evergy, and Consumers. See P.S.C. W.WA. Tariff No. 15 (Appalachian Power 
Company), P.S.C. W.VA. Tariff No. 20 (Wheeling Power Company). Duke Energy Florida finds itself in a less 
competitive market than other regions. Their proposal to implement a Large Load Customer Policy, with 
 

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
DB03/0806654.0006/10507501.1 
 
LPPC certainly understands DOE’s sense of urgency in addressing the rapid development 
of data centers nationwide. Yet, FERC must be careful that the effort is not counterproductive, 
and that it does not disrupt efforts now being undertaken by state authorities to deal with the 
urgency of serving this new load while protecting existing customers. The Commission should 
expressly hold that its intention is not to preempt the exercise of state authority over the terms of 
retail service to large load, including the allocation of generation, distribution upgrade costs, 
retail contract length, and security requirements. 
2. 
FERC Should Clarify That The ANOPR Does Not Purport To 
Mandate Retail Wheeling.  
 
 
FERC does not have the authority under the FPA to mandate the provision of 
transmission service to end use customers, a service known as retail wheeling. FPA section 
212(h) (“Prohibition on mandatory retail wheeling and sham wholesale transactions”) stipulates 
that “[n]o order issued under this chapter shall be conditioned upon or require the transmission of 
electric energy: (1) directly to an ultimate consumer; or (2) to, or for the benefit of an entity if 
such electric energy would be sold by such entity directly to an ultimate consumers….”7 The 
provision is a core reservation of rights to state authorities, and was included in the Energy 
Policy Act 1992, which simultaneously provided FERC with enhanced authority to require 
transmission service upon application. Balancing that then-new authority, FPA section 212(h) 
prohibits FERC from enabling retail customers to secure open access transmission that holds the 
potential to undermine state-based authority over retail sales.8   
 
corresponding rate schedules and customer agreements, includes a 15-20 year contract term requirement and is still 
pending at the Florida Public Service Commission. Duke Energy Florida, LLC., Docket No. 20250113-EI, Order 
No. PSC-2025-0376-PCO-EI (Fla. Pub. Serv. Comm’n [Oct. 14, 2025]). 
7 16 U.S.C. § 824(h).  
8 See Costello, K., et al., Overview of Issues Relating to the Retail Wheeling of Electricity, The National Regulatory 
Institute (1994).  

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
DB03/0806654.0006/10507501.1 
 
The prohibition against retail wheeling is subject only to limited exceptions, and in this 
setting makes it clear that FERC cannot exercise authority over interconnections to provide for 
transmission access by end use customers. While states may authorize retail wheeling, FERC 
cannot require it.9 
B. 
FERC’s Jurisdiction over Transmission Implicit in Bundled Sales is Unclear 
and Holds Potential Unintended Consequences.  
  
 
The ANOPR implicitly acknowledges that FERC’s exercise of authority over 
interconnections for retail load would call for the Commission to reverse its decision in Order 
No. 88810 not to exercise jurisdiction over transmission implicit in bundled retail service.11 The 
Commission’s decision declining to regulate bundled transmission was upheld in New York v. 
FERC, 535 U.S. 1 (2002). The decision expressly did not decide whether the exercise of this 
authority would have been contrary to the statute, as was argued before FERC in the record 
leading to Order No. 888, on the grounds that transmission to end use customers is 
fundamentally a retail matter. The Commission declined to rule on the issue of law, finding that 
“the regulation of bundled retail transmissions raises numerous difficult jurisdictional issues.”12      
 
LPPC supports FERC’s long-held conclusion that the question whether transmission 
implicit in bundled retail sales is FERC-jurisdictional is a difficult matter. The matter is difficult 
 
9 We note that in service territories where retail transmission access (retail wheeling) is not permitted, a FERC-
administered large load interconnection for the purpose of facilitating open access transmission would be pointless. 
That would also be true where, under state law, the utility is not authorized or required to serve the load at retail.  
10 Promoting Wholesale Competition Through Open Access Non-Discriminatory Transmission Servs. by Pub. Utils; 
Recovery of Stranded Costs by Pub. Utils & Transmitting Utils., Order No. 888, FERC Stats. & Regs.¶ 31,036 
(1996) (cross referenced at 75 FERC ¶ 61,080), order on reh 'g, Order No. 888-A, FERC Stats. & Regs.¶ 31,048 
(cross-referenced at 78 FERC¶ 61,220), order on reh 'g, Order No. 888-B, 81 FERC ¶ 61,248 (1997), order on reh. 
'g, Order No. 888-C, 82 FERC ~ 61,046 (1998), aff'd in relevant part sub nom. Transmission Access Poly Study 
Grp. v. FERC, 225 F.3d 667 (D.C. Cir. 2000), aff'd sub nom. New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1 (2002). 
11 ANOPR at PP 3-5. 
12 Order No. 888 at 31,699; Order No. 888-A, at 30,225-30,226.  

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 
DB03/0806654.0006/10507501.1 
both on the face of the statute and because concluding that bundled transmission is subject to 
FERC authority would have the ancillary effect of requiring FERC to regulate transmission rates 
implicit in bundled retail sales.  
 
On the face of the statute, while FERC is given authority by FPA section 201(b) over the 
“transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce,” no authority is granted over retail sales, 
as discussed above. For as long as the electric industry has been regulated under the FPA, 
transmission associated with bundled retail sales has been subject to state authority, as an 
implicit element of the facilities and cost of service that comprise retail service. In Order No. 
888, the Commission determined that when unbundled from energy sales, transmission would be 
subject to its oversight and subject to the open access requirement in order to address 
discrimination. The Commission recognized, however, that transmission bundled with retail 
sales involved predominantly state-based concerns (including the matter of retail rates reflecting 
transmission costs).13 The complexity of the issue alluded to by the ANOPR, and recognized by 
the Court in New York v. FERC, inherently involved the prospect of further litigation, with an 
uncertain outcome.  That is undoubtedly true here as well.   
 
The ANOPR’s discussion of “Legal Authority” at PP 13-15 provides limited support for 
reversing this historical approach. First, it is not enough for the ANOPR to assert (P 13) that 
“like generator interconnections, large load interconnections are a ‘critical component of open 
access service.” In state regulatory environments where retail transmission access has not been 
authorized (and transmission has not been unbundled), there is no logical predicate (open access 
service) to which to attach jurisdiction over the interconnection. Second, the ANOPR’s assertion 
that transmission interconnection is a matter “affecting Commission-jurisdictional wholesale 
 
13 Citation to O. 888.  

--- PAGE 9 ---
9 
DB03/0806654.0006/10507501.1 
electricity sales” bears little weight in a bundled retail environment. All retail sales have some 
effect on wholesale markets, but this is a sufficient basis for FERC’s exercise of authority and 
does not override the FPA’s reservation of retail authority to the states.This matter is unlike the 
demand response programs considered by the Court in FERC v. Elec. Power Supply Ass’n., 136 
S.Ct 760 (2016) (“EPSA”), which have a demonstrable and direct impact on the wholesale sales 
market. Indeed, FERC itself in its recent order in Tri-State Generation and Transmission Ass’n, 
Inc., 193 FERC ¶ 61,070, P 47 (2025) quoted EPSA to the effect that “’no matter how direct, or 
dramatic’ a proposal’s impact on wholesale rates, the Commission still may not regulate retail 
electricity sales.”14               
 
Complicating the matter further is that the Commission’s assertion of jurisdiction over 
transmission bundled with retail sales would also carry with it an obligation to regulate such 
transmission, something FERC has been loath to do. That obligation is a corollary of the 
principle articulated by Justice Thomas in his dissenting opinion New York v. FERC, opining that 
FERC has authority over bundled transmission and must exercise it.15 As Justice Thomas opined, 
where FERC jurisdiction is found, the Commission has “a statutory mandate to regulate when it 
finds unjust, unreasonable, unduly discriminatory, or preferential treatment with respect to any 
transmission subject to its jurisdiction.”16 FPA section 205(a), cited by Justice Thomas in support 
of his view, stipulates that “[a]ll rates and charges…for or in connection with the 
transmission…of electric energy subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission…shall be just and 
 
14 In Tri-State, the Commission specifically faulted the proposal for dictating the terms of retail access programs 
administered by Tri-State;’s members.    
15 New York v. FERC, id., J. Thomas dissenting Op. at 29-30.  
16 Id. at 33.  

--- PAGE 10 ---
10 
DB03/0806654.0006/10507501.1 
reasonable.”17 This may be an unintended result of the legal position postulated in the ANOPR, 
but it would be consequential, and it would impose enormous new responsibility on FERC that is 
currently entrusted to state regulatory authorities in conjunction with retail ratemaking.     
 
In addition to these challenges, the Commission’s path to the exercise of jurisdiction over 
large load interconnections where retail service is provided on a bundled basis by state-regulated 
utilities is made even more tenuous by FPA section 212(h), which prohibits the Commission 
from requiring “transmission of electric energy…directly to an ultimate consumer.” As noted in 
the ANOPR,18 and as held in Order No. 2003,19 interconnection is an aspect of transmission 
service.20 Consequently, it is not at all clear that FERC can direct an interconnection (i.e., 
transmission service) for the benefit of retail load (transmission “directly to an ultimate 
consumer”).  
 
Finally, it is worth adding this observation: If, for reasons explained above, FERC cannot 
exercise authority over retail sales to large load, and has no authority to compel retail wheeling, 
the practical value of exercising authority over interconnections associated with transmission 
bundled with retail sales is limited, even if FERC has such authority. If the point is to help 
reduce the friction associated with large load interconnections, LPPC suggests that a consensus-
based approach bringing together FERC, DOE, states and affected utilities would be most 
productive, as discussed below.      
 
17 16 U.S.C. § 824d(a).  
18 PP 7-8. 
19 Standardization of Generator Interconnection Agreements & Procs., Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103, at P 1 
(2003), order on reh 'g, Order No. 2003-A, 106 FERC ¶ 61,220 (2004), order on reh 'g, Order No. 2003-B, 109 
FERC ¶ 61,287 (2004), order on reh 'g, Order No. 2003-C, III FERC ~ 61,401 (2005), aff'd sub nom. Nat'/ Ass 'n of 
Regul. Util. Comm'rs v. FERC, 475 F.3d 1277 (D.C. Cir. 2007). 
20 For this proposition, Order No. 2003 relies on Tennessee Power Co., 90 FERC P 61,238 (2000), cited in O No. 
2003 at P 9.  

--- PAGE 11 ---
11 
DB03/0806654.0006/10507501.1 
C. 
LPPC Urges the Commission to Consider Fostering a Consensus-Based 
Approach to Large Load Interconnection Protocols.   
 
 
Recognizing both the national interest in serving growing data center load, and the 
fundamental jurisdictional challenge the ANOPR poses with respect to state regulatory authority 
over this retail load, LPPC urges the Commission to convene a forum to develop a consensus-
based approach to large load interconnection. That forum, overseen by FERC, may include the 
NARUC and representatives from the Investor Owned Utility, LPPC and cooperative 
communities. LPPC envisions that the Principles of Reform outlined in the ANOPR (which 
LPPC generally supports) would serve as a starting point for relevant discussions, and that the 
resulting framework may be adopted consensually by regulatory authorities across the nation. 
Following some period of time for voluntary adoption of the consensual framework, if FERC 
determines that progress in interconnecting large loads has stalled, it may reserve the option of 
taking further action, while parties would reserve the right to challenge further action.  In the 
meantime, progress may well be made, without the distraction and inevitable delays associated 
with litigation of the thorny legal questions the ANOPR raises.         
D. 
Principles of Reform – Selected Comments  
 
 
LPPC generally supports the framework for large load interconnection outlined in DOE’s 
proposed principles, though for reasons discussed above LPPC believes that FERC would be best 
advised to proceed with this approach on a consensus basis. As detailed below, LPPC believes 
that some modifications to the proposed principles would make sense, particularly where 
regional differences warrant tailored approaches to large load interconnections. Indeed, many 
regions already have such protocols in place or under development.  In these cases, a more 
prescriptive approach could be counterproductive to DOE’s goal of expediting large load 
interconnections.          

--- PAGE 12 ---
12 
DB03/0806654.0006/10507501.1 
Principle 1: The Commission's jurisdiction should be limited to interconnections directly 
to transmission facilities, consistent with the Commission's seven-factor test. 
 
LPPC Comment: LPPC agrees that there is no arguable basis for Commission jurisdiction over 
interconnections to distribution-level facilities and that the Commission’s seven-factor test 
provides a set of useful guideposts in distinguishing transmission from distribution-level 
facilities. With that said, application of the test would likely result in the inclusion of facilities 
quite a bit smaller than those on which typical large data center loads would be sited, suggesting 
that a higher kV threshold be established to identify transmission operationally capable of 
serving large data centers, while reducing the impact on state authority.   
  
Principle 2: The reforms should only apply to new loads greater than 20 MW and, for 
hybrid facilities, where the load is greater than 20 MW.  
 
LPPC Comment: LPPC asks the Commission to defer to varied regional approaches. Utilities 
across the country and ISOs/RTOs have set varied thresholds for the definition of large loads, 
based on judgments regarding grid configuration and available transmission capacity. LPPC is of 
the view that the 20 MW threshold is low, and that loads substantially larger than 20 MW have 
been integrated with some frequency under state-based protocols.  
 
Principle 3: To the extent practicable, load and hybrid facilities should be studied 
together with generating facilities.   
 
LPPC Comment: LPPC asks the Commission to defer to varied regional approaches. While many 
utilities have found it useful to study new load and generation together, in some settings the 
introduction of large load into the study process will be disruptive of existing study processes 
and holds the potential to delay both generation and load interconnections. The varied 
characteristics of incremental load and generation are substantially responsible for the 
complications arising from a single study process. LPPC notes that there may be instances where 
inclusion of large loads may mask system limitations within deliverability analyses.    
 
Principle 4: Load and hybrid facilities should be subject to standardized study deposits, 
readiness requirements, and withdrawal penalties. 
 
LPPC Comment: LPPC agrees. As is the case for generation interconnection, standardized study 
deposits, readiness requirements, and withdrawal penalties are essential in the effort to stabilize 
interconnection queues. The order of magnitude of new large load justifies revisiting these terms 
as they apply to large load, in order to ensure that financial incentives are commensurate with the 
investment and level of risk to existing customers.   
 
We note that LPPC member efforts to build out their systems in order to accommodate large 
retail load, and to assess deposits and withdrawal penalties under longer term agreements with 
large load developers, are constrained by Internal Revenue Service regulations for tax exempt 
financing.  Customer Agreements longer than three years are treated as “private use” under 
Treas. Reg. § 1.141-7(f)(3), which caps contract terms at three years. Because tax exempt bonds 
are subject to private business use limits on a system wide and long-term basis, a single large 

--- PAGE 13 ---
13 
DB03/0806654.0006/10507501.1 
customer contract that fails the current three year test can cause outstanding tax exempt bonds to 
become taxable private activity bonds. This risk cannot simply be solved by issuing taxable debt 
only for new projects, because the private business use rules apply across the entire system 
financed with tax exempt bonds for the life of those bonds.  
 
LPPC is working with the IRS in order to modernize these regulations, but asks the Commission 
to recognize that successful implementation of Principle 4 and timely construction of new 
infrastructure to serve large load may depend on coordination within the Administration. In 
particularly, Treasury’s private use-regulations should be made consistent with national energy 
policy and grid reliability goals, and the Department of Energy can again play a constructive role 
in aligning tax and energy policy. The last significant revisions to these rules, adopted in the late 
1990s to address electric industry restructuring, were developed with substantial input from 
DOE, and a similar level of engagement will be important here.  
 
Principle 5: Hybrid facilities should be studied based on the amount of injection and/or 
withdrawal rights requested. For example, a hybrid facility consisting of a 500MW load 
and a 600MW generating facility may seek no withdrawal rights and 100MW of 
injection rights. 
 
LPPC Comment: In transmission planning and protection practice, system studies are performed 
on the basis of maximum credible injections and withdrawals, not assumed netting at a single 
bus, because contingencies and control failures routinely defeat netting. Protection and control 
schemes can mitigate, but not eliminate, the risk that hybrid facilities will exceed their net rights 
under certain contingencies, communication failures, and cyber events. Planning studies 
therefore need to evaluate maximum credible injections and withdraws, even when protection 
systems are in place.  
 
Expert feedback provides the following input: Generic ride-through requirements do not provide 
an optimal balance of objectives across all load facilities; requirements appropriate in one set of 
circumstances can be too permissive in other circumstances, compromising grid security, or too 
restrictive in other cases potentially making large loads economically infeasible. 
  
In locations where the transmission system is weak and there are other power-electronic systems 
such as inverter-based resources (IBR), there is potential for the various control systems to 
interact with each other in an adverse manner across a range of oscillatory frequencies.  A 
modern large load facility connected in the vicinity of IBR, HVDC, FACTS, and other fast-
controlled power electronic systems adds further complications and opportunities for adverse 
interactions. 
 
While not fully researched and documented, there is substantial reason to expect that 
interconnection of large-load facilities dominated by power electronic loads requires specific 
attention to potential control interactions with other systems in the grid.  The relevance of this 
issue and the necessary interconnection requirements and restrictions are inherently location-
specific based on the strength of the grid and the proximity to potentially interacting systems.  
System interactions with load devices can also occur even for hybrid facilities having no net 
power exchange with the bulk transmission system. 

--- PAGE 14 ---
14 
DB03/0806654.0006/10507501.1 
 
Thus, it is imperative that the Transmission Owner retain the authority to study technical issues 
posed by large loads, inclusive of those described above, and to set technical interconnection 
requirements which may not be uniform across the system, or uniform across a state local 
transmission system. Hybrid facilities, even those operating with no net power exchange with the 
bulk transmission system, should not excluded from technical studies necessary to ensure that 
these facilities do not compromise the stability and integrity of the bulk transmission system. 
  
Principle 6: Any hybrid interconnection shall be required to install the system protection 
facilities necessary to prevent unauthorized injections or withdrawals that exceed the 
respective rights. 
 
LPPC Comment: LPPC agrees, but repeats its comment above (Principle 5) that protection and 
control schemes can mitigate, but not eliminate, the risk that hybrid facilities will exceed their 
net rights under certain contingencies, communication failures, and cyber events.      
 
Principle 7: The interconnection study of large loads that agree to be curtailable and 
hybrid facilities that agree to be curtailable and dispatchable should be expedited. 
 
LPPC Comment: Pubic Power has several concerns. First, curtailable facilities still require 
system study, including, e.g. short-circuit analysis. Establishing an inflexible priority for load 
and resources that agree to curtail within a cluster study can disadvantage other projects and 
introduce additional uncertainty for costs and timing of needed generation and network upgrades.   
 
Second, any expedited treatment for curtailable load and hybrid facilities should not come at the 
expense of interconnecting historical, native load. The commission should clarify that 
agreements to curtail are one factor that transmission providers may consider in designing study 
processes, but that they do not override reliability needs or timely interconnection of existing 
customers.  
 
Lastly, to the extent load participates in curtailment and dispatch programs at the retail level (e.g. 
virtual power plant), any contractual and program requirements are within the ambit of the load 
serving entity that serves the retail customer.  
 
Principle 8: Load and hybrid facilities should be responsible for 100% of the network 
upgrades that they are assigned through the interconnection studies. DOE seeks comment 
on whether such costs should be offset through a crediting mechanism and, if so, over 
how many years.  
 
LPPC Comment: LPPC agrees that load and hybrid facilities should be fully responsible for 
network upgrades. No credits or refunds should be required, consistent with the principle of 
assessing costs to cost causers. Large load interconnections of the magnitude contemplated in 
many parts of the nation hold the potential for substantial cost shifts to existing load. Credits or 
refunds will have the effect of saddling existing load with these costs. Unlike generation 
interconnection, where the availability of generation benefits the marketplace as a whole, 
existing customers do not necessarily benefit from the addition of new load.  

--- PAGE 15 ---
15 
DB03/0806654.0006/10507501.1 
 
Further, the matter of cost responsibility and allocation among categories of load has historically 
been considered to be a state matter. Requiring credits or refunds, and effectively rolling in the 
cost of grid expansion to accommodate large loads, would federalize what has long been a state-
based matter.         
 
Principle 9: To the extent the interconnection customer is not the transmission owner, 
the interconnection customer shall be afforded the same (or equivalent) option to build 
as currently provided to generator interconnection customers.  
 
LPPC Comment: This is unnecessary, and inconsistent with planning and operation for retail 
service, of which large load is a component. The impetus in Order No. 2003 for granting 
interconnecting generators the opportunity to build out the transmission grid lay in concern that 
utilities may have a business interest in dragging their feet in providing an interconnection. This 
is not the case with respect to new retail load, where transmission owning utilities have an 
obligation to plan, build, and operate facilities under state/local oversight. Letting a data center 
or other load construct facilities intrudes on state jurisdiction and the decision should be left to 
states and local governing bodies. 
 
Principle 10: An existing generating facility that seeks to enter a partial suspension to 
serve a new load at the same location must go through a system support resource 
(SSR)/reliability must run (RMR) type study. 
 
LPPC Comment: Modifications of an existing application should be based on new parameters 
reflecting generation and load characteristics and their impact on the grid. The parameters for 
such study should be identified by interconnecting transmission operators.   
 
Principle 11: Utilities serving large loads, including those at hybrid facilities, should 
be responsible for transmission service based on their withdrawal rights, as that value 
amount reflects the quantity of capacity and energy that is being transmitted across the 
transmission system to the load. 
 
LPPC Comment: This would appear to be consistent with the treatment of retail load generally, 
but for that reason also underscores the proposition (see above) that large load interconnection is 
fundamentally a retail matter.  
 
Principle 12: Utilities serving large loads, including those at hybrid facilities, should be 
responsible for ancillary services based on peak demand, without consideration of any 
co-located generation. Any co-located generating facilities will similarly be fully 
compensated for the provision of ancillary services.  
 
LPPC Comment: This is an area where regional differences should be allowed. Technically, not 
all ancillary services are charged based on peak demand. FERC should clarify that ancillary 
services are charged on the same basis as specified in regionally-applicable market rules. 
 

--- PAGE 16 ---
16 
DB03/0806654.0006/10507501.1 
In addition, co-located generators should only be compensated for such ancillary services as the 
co-located generator demonstrably provides to the grid.  
 
Principle 13: There must be a plan to implement these proposed reforms. DOE seeks 
comment on appropriate transition plans, including the treatment of large load 
interconnections that are already being studied for interconnection.  
 
LPPC Comment: Since large load interconnections are currently being studied as a retail matter 
under state and local law, a transition cannot reasonably take place until the cycle of studies 
undertaken for existing applications has elapsed.  New rules should not be employed to the 
legacy interconnection agreements to the detriment of historical native load.   
 
Principle 14: Utilities serving large loads must meet all applicable NERC reliability 
standards and OATT provisions. Utilities and we must be prepared to revise large load 
interconnection procedures and agreements, as necessary. NERC should review its 
reliability standards to determine if new registration categories or new or modified 
reliability standards are required to ensure reliability of the BES. 
 
LPPC Comment: Compliance with NERC standards should be required of all large load, to the 
extent registered by NERC. LPPC supports the effort it understands is now underway at NERC 
to consider the impact of large loads on grid reliability, along with potential registration 
requirements and the development of relevant standards.   
 
CONCLUSION  
 
 
For reasons articulated above, LPPC asks the Commission to shape any proposed 
rule issued in this docket consistent with the Comments herein.  
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Large LPPC Council 
 
/s/Jonathan D. Schneider   
Jonathan D. Schneider 
John McCaffrey 
Mary Kate Jaworowski 
Stinson LLP 
1775 Pennsylvania Avenue NW 
Suite 800 
Washington, DC 20006 
jonathan.schneider@stinson.com 
John.McCaffrey@stinson.com 
marykate.jaworowski@stinson.com

--- PAGE 17 ---
17 
DB03/0806654.0006/10507501.1 
 
 
November 21, 2025 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          
