--- PAGE 1 ---
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System 
) 
) 
) 
) 
 
Docket No. RM26-4 
INITIAL COMMENTS OF MICROSOFT, INC. 
 
 
Pursuant to the October 27, 2025 Notice Inviting Comments of the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission (“Commission”) and the November 7, 2025 Notice Granting 
Extension of Time, Microsoft Corporation (“Microsoft”) comments on the Advanced Notice 
of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”). The ANOPR invites comment on 14 framework 
principles proposed to inform the Commission’s rulemaking deliberations regarding the 
interconnection of large loads and hybrid facilities to jurisdictional transmission facilities.   
The U.S. economy relies on an electric grid that, at present, cannot meet the rapidly 
increasing electricity requirements of the digital economy and datacenters, reshoring of 
manufacturing and heavy industry, and electrification.1 Microsoft recognizes that the 
expansion of data centers performing cloud computing and artificial intelligence (“AI”) 
operations necessitates significant investment in electric transmission and generation 
capacity, support for domestic supply chains, and new tools and technologies that optimize 
grid operations. Microsoft is investing heavily in the electric power sector and appreciates the 
initiative of the U.S. Department of Energy (“DOE”) and the Commission to streamline, 
standardize, modernize, and speed up access to the electric grid for datacenters and other 
 
1 See Brad Smith, Winning the AI race: Strengthening U.S. capabilities in computing 
and innovation, MICROSOFT ON THE ISSUES (May 8, 2025), https://blogs.microsoft.com/on-
the-issues/2025/05/08/winning-the-ai-race/.  

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
2 
large loads, and for inviting industry participants to address the pressing challenges of grid 
interconnection and service to new large loads and hybrid facilities. Together, the 
administration, industry, customers, and stakeholders can develop policies that speed up 
access to power to deliver economic growth and ensure energy affordability and reliability 
for all Americans.  
Microsoft’s comments focus on five ANOPR principles necessary for the U.S. 
datacenter industry: integrated studies of large loads, hybrid facilities, and generator-only 
interconnections to achieve reliable, efficient, and cost-effective interconnection to the 
electric grid (principle no. 3); standardized study processes that remove uncertainty for 
customers, utilities, and entities responsible for regional grid operations and planning 
(principle no. 4); expedited study processes for large loads that agree to voluntarily curtail 
during system stress and hybrid facilities that likewise agree to be curtailable and 
dispatchable (principle no. 7); cost allocation rules that fairly and equitably allocate costs 
among system users (principle no. 8); and transition mechanisms that avoid regulatory 
uncertainty (principle no. 13). These ANOPR principles present an important opportunity 
for collaboration among state and federal regulators to develop an open and 
nondiscriminatory framework for interconnecting large loads and hybrid facilities that 
facilitates coordination, provides transparency for system users, achieves efficiencies, lowers 
costs, and enhances regulatory certainty.  

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
3 
I. 
BACKGROUND 
Microsoft’s datacenters deliver world-class data security and privacy, enabling the 
applications, capabilities, and services that support the rapidly evolving digital economy.2 
Microsoft operates 24/7 to support critical infrastructure and services—e.g., first responders, 
hospitals, and emergency services; financial institutions; services across the food and 
agricultural distribution supply chain; and federal, state, and local government operations 
essential for public health, transportation, and national security.3 Indeed, the services that 
Microsoft provides are integral to the U.S. economy—Microsoft Azure is used by 95% of 
Fortune 500 companies and deployment of generative AI could potentially realize $3.8 
trillion in productivity savings by 2038.4 Microsoft’s datacenters also make possible 
everyday activities like paying household bills, remote work, and video calls among family 
and friends. 
 
2 See Microsoft Datacenters: Illuminating the unseen power of the cloud, MICROSOFT, 
https://datacenters.microsoft.com/ (last visited Nov. 18, 2025). 
3 See Understanding Microsoft Datacenters, MICROSOFT, 
https://news.microsoft.com/datacenters/#:~:text=Microsoft%20datacenters%20play%20a%2
0crucial,miles%20of%20fiber%20optic%20cables (last visited Nov. 18, 2025); Bill Briggs, 
‘Critical to our modern society’: How datacenters power everyday necessities, MICROSOFT 
(Oct. 26, 2022), https://news.microsoft.com/source/emea/features/critical-to-our-modern-
society-how-datacenters-power-everyday-necessities/. 
4 See Microsoft Azure: The only consistent, comprehensive hybrid cloud, MICROSOFT 
AZURE BLOG (Sept. 25, 2018), https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/blog/microsoft-azure-the-
only-consistent-comprehensive-hybrid-
cloud/?msockid=2eef0b747bf0658d126f189d7aa66484; Rima Alaily, The $3.8 trillion 
opportunity: unlocking the economic potential of the US generative AI ecosystem, 
MICROSOFT ON THE ISSUES (Nov. 21, 2024), https://blogs.microsoft.com/on-the-
issues/2024/11/21/the-3-8-trillion-opportunity-unlocking-the-economic-potential-of-the-us-
generative-ai-ecosystem/.   

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
4 
Microsoft constructs, owns, and operates more than 400 datacenters in 70 regions 
across North America and five continents, more than any other cloud provider.5 Microsoft’s 
investments are guided by the needs of its business and government customers that use its 
services. Microsoft’s customers can choose the datacenter regions where computing power 
and services are deployed for them based on needs including network performance and data 
residency. Many of Microsoft’s customers require that their data be stored in the United 
States, so it is critical that Microsoft be positioned to expand operations to continuously meet 
its obligations to its customers and contribute to the United States’ leadership in AI.  
Microsoft has datacenters operating or under development across the U.S., including 
in Arizona, California, Georgia, Illinois, Iowa, Texas, Virginia, Washington, Wisconsin, and 
Wyoming. This year, Microsoft announced two major AI datacenter facilities: the first, in 
southeastern Wisconsin, is expected to come online in early 2026, and the second, in Atlanta, 
Georgia, began operation in October 2025.6 These facilities are the first phase of a dedicated 
network of sites that will operate as an AI superfactory to accelerate AI breakthroughs and 
train new models on a scale that, until now, has been impossible.7   
 
5 See Azure global infrastructure: Grow with confidence and choice on a trusted, 
sustainable, and advanced cloud and AI infrastructure, MICROSOFT, 
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/explore/global-
infrastructure#:~:text=Azure%20global%20infrastructure (last visited Nov. 18, 2025).  
Microsoft’s latest quarterly earnings report datacenter investments of $24 billion globally and 
this pace is expected to continue. See Press Release & Webcast: Earnings Release FY26 Q1, 
Microsoft (Oct. 29, 2025), https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/investor/earnings/FY-2026-
Q1/press-release-webcast.  
6 See, e.g., Catherine Bolgar, From Wisconsin to Atlanta: Microsoft connects 
datacenters to build its first AI superfactory, MICROSOFT (Nov. 12, 2025), 
https://news.microsoft.com/source/features/ai/from-wisconsin-to-atlanta-microsoft-connects-
datacenters-to-build-its-first-ai-superfactory/.  
7 Id.  

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
5 
Microsoft is actively engaged in discussions with national, state, and local 
stakeholders on energy infrastructure, permitting, and community partnerships to support the 
responsible growth of datacenters. Locating datacenters in the United States helps ensure the 
country remains at the forefront of innovation, strengthens supply chain security, and delivers 
economic benefits to local communities. Through its Datacenter Community Pledge, 
Microsoft commits that datacenters will not only serve as the backbone of modern 
technology but also provide benefits to the communities where they are located.8 As a large 
electricity consumer, Microsoft pays its share of electric system costs and is committed to 
working closely with regulators, grid operators, transmission-owning utilities, load serving 
entities, power producers, and other stakeholders with the objective of ensuring that U.S. 
electricity infrastructure is reliable, resilient, and affordable to all.  
Microsoft expects that consumer-driven demand for cloud services and AI 
applications and technologies will accelerate rapidly over at least the next decade. Timely 
access to electric power supplies has been and continues to be the biggest obstacle industry-
wide to the deployment of advanced computing technology in the United States. But it is not 
only about timely access. Microsoft requires reliable and resilient electric power supplies to 
assure the reliability of its datacenters because Microsoft’s datacenters support critical 
infrastructure services essential for the welfare of the United States’ economy and its people.9 
 
8 Noelle Walsh, Microsoft’s Datacenter Community Pledge: To build and operate 
digital infrastructure that addresses societal challenges and creates benefits for 
communities, OFFICIAL MICROSOFT BLOG (June 2, 2024), 
https://blogs.microsoft.com/blog/2024/06/02/microsofts-datacenter-community-pledge-to-
build-and-operate-digital-infrastructure-that-addresses-societal-challenges-and-creates-
benefits-for-communities/.  
9 Microsoft commits to service availability levels of up to 99.99% of the time, and 
power system reliability and power redundancy play a large part in ensuring Microsoft can 
 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
6 
Microsoft is already substantially invested in the power sector.  Last year, Microsoft 
announced a long-term, front-of-the-meter power purchase agreement with Constellation to 
restart the Unit 1 reactor at the Crane Energy Center in Dauphin County, Pennsylvania.10 
This restart is expected by 2028, adding more than 800 megawatts of new firm, carbon-free 
energy and electric capacity to the electric grid operated by PJM Interconnection, L.L.C.11 
Additionally, Microsoft is investing in projects and companies at the cutting edge of 
advanced energy system technology. Two years ago, Microsoft executed a power purchase 
agreement for offtake with the first nuclear fusion generator, Helion Energy.12 Further, 
through its $1 billion Climate Innovation Fund, Microsoft is providing innovative financing 
 
meet its customer commitments. See Reliability with Microsoft Azure, MICROSOFT AZURE, 
https://azure.microsoft.com/files/Features/Reliability/AzureResiliencyInfographic.pdf?v=95f
7f9240e31cb9d723ea0cfdea7864bef338788e9324919e9a93635fb8f64c5&msockid=2eef0b74
7bf0658d126f189d7aa66484 (last visited Nov. 18, 2025).    
10 Bobby Hollis, Accelerating the addition of carbon-free energy: An update on 
progress, MICROSOFT (Sept. 20, 2024), https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-
cloud/blog/2024/09/20/accelerating-the-addition-of-carbon-free-energy-an-update-on-
progress/ (linking Constellation to Launch Crane Clean Energy Center, Restoring Jobs and 
Carbon-Free Power to the Grid, CONSTELLATION (Sept. 20, 2024), 
https://www.constellationenergy.com/newsroom/2024/Constellation-to-Launch-Crane-Clean-
Energy-Center-Restoring-Jobs-and-Carbon-Free-Power-to-The-Grid.html).    
11 Constellation to Launch Crane Clean Energy Center, Restoring Jobs and Carbon-
Free Power to the Grid, CONSTELLATION (Sept. 20, 2024), 
https://www.constellationenergy.com/newsroom/2024/Constellation-to-Launch-Crane-Clean-
Energy-Center-Restoring-Jobs-and-Carbon-Free-Power-to-The-Grid.html. 
12 Michelle Patron, Advocating for decarbonization of the power sector, MICROSOFT 
ON THE ISSUES (Aug. 16, 2023), https://blogs.microsoft.com/on-the-issues/2023/08/16/apec-
sustainability-decarbonization-fusion-energy/ (linking Timothy Gardner, Microsoft signs 
power purchase deal with nuclear fusion company Helion, REUTERS (May 10, 2023), 
https://www.reuters.com/technology/microsoft-buy-power-nuclear-fusion-company-helion-
2023-05-10/).  

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
7 
to companies such as LineVision, AutoGrid, and Utilidata.13 Microsoft expects its 
investments will contribute to the development of a stronger and more robust electric grid.  
Microsoft appreciates consideration of policies by DOE, the Commission, public 
utility commissions, and state and local energy departments that will position grid operators 
and electric utilities to reliably interconnect and serve datacenters and other large commercial 
and industrial retail loads.  That need is happening now and is expected to continue at this 
pace across the United States through at least the next decade.   
II. 
COMMENTS 
On October 23, 2025, Secretary of Energy Chris Wright directed the Commission to 
initiate proposed rulemaking procedures and to consider the ANOPR’s potential reforms 
intended to ensure the timely and orderly interconnection of large loads to Commission-
jurisdictional transmission facilities.14 On October 27, 2025, and as amended by the 
November 7, 2025 notice granting an extension of time, the Commission issued a notice 
docketing the ANOPR, inviting comments, and setting the date for initial and reply 
comments.15 The ANOPR seeks to engage industry stakeholders by proposing 
interconnection procedures for large loads (greater than 20 MW) and hybrid facilities, which 
 
13 Climate Innovation Fund, MICROSOFT, https://www.microsoft.com/en-
us/corporate-responsibility/sustainability/climate-innovation-fund (last visited Nov. 18, 
2025).  
14 See Secretary of Energy’s Direction that the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission Initiate Rulemaking Procedures and Proposal Regarding the Interconnection of 
Large Loads Pursuant to the Secretary’s Authority Under Section 403 of the Department of 
Energy Organization Act (Oct. 23, 2025) (“Secretary Wright’s Letter”). 
15 See Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Notice 
Inviting Comments, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 27, 2025); Interconnection of Large 
Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Notice Granting Extension of Time, Docket No. 
RM26-4-000 (Nov. 7, 2025). 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
8 
are large loads co-located with, electrically adjacent to, or that share a point of 
interconnection with new or existing generation facilities, and that directly interconnect to 
interstate transmission facilities subject to the Commission’s jurisdiction.16 The ANOPR asks 
for comment on framework principles that may inform the Commission’s rulemaking 
deliberations regarding interconnection of these large loads and hybrid facilities.   
In consideration of the urgent need for action, the Commission is expected to take 
final action by no later than April 20, 2026.17 As explained in the ANOPR, electricity 
demand in the United States is accelerating and load growth is greater than at any point in 
recent history. Microsoft understands that the interconnection of datacenters and other large 
loads presents new challenges for state and federal utility regulators, utilities, and grid 
operators. Microsoft supports collaboration and coordination among state and federal 
regulators for interconnecting large loads and hybrid facilities and respectfully requests that 
the Commission take these comments into consideration as it decides its next steps.   
A. 
Principle #3: Combined Generation and Load Studies 
The ANOPR’s third principle proposes, to the extent possible, load and hybrid 
facilities should be studied together with generating facilities. For example, the ANOPR 
proposes that siting a large “baseload” load near or at the same point of interconnection as a 
new generating facility (one possible form of bring-your-own generation or “BYOG”) could 
reduce the number and scope of network upgrades necessary for both the load and generator 
interconnections. Microsoft believes studying load and generation together has the potential 
to speed up the interconnection process for load and generation by eliminating duplicative, 
 
16 See ANOPR at PP 12, 19. 
17 Secretary Wright’s Letter at 2. 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
9 
and potentially conflicting, studies and will facilitate more efficient grid planning by more 
closely aligning generation capacity needs with large loads. Additionally, studying load and 
generation together potentially reduces the scale and cost of transmission upgrades by 
minimizing system impacts and the need for major backbone reinforcements. Eliminating 
unnecessary regulatory and interconnection delays—while assuring system reliability—is 
necessary to match the pace of AI innovation in the United States. In Microsoft’s view, the 
changes ripe for consideration are those that (i) focus on processes that will increase speed-
to-market for new customers and new generation and (ii) reduce the cost and scope of 
network upgrades needed for interconnection.        
B. 
Principle #4: Standard Study Requirements 
The ANOPR’s fourth principle proposes that load and hybrid facilities be subject to 
standardized study deposits, readiness requirements, and withdrawal penalties.18 The 
ANOPR presents these reforms not only to deter speculative projects, but also to provide 
entities with more reliable information that they can use with confidence in system planning 
activities. Microsoft supports standardizing study requirements to provide greater regulatory 
certainty, deter speculation, and enhance transparency so businesses can plan with more 
predictability. Interconnection processes should clearly articulate study requirements, 
financial commitments, timelines, and responsibilities of the utility and the customer. It is 
important to Microsoft to receive studies that are timely delivered and provide robust results 
and reasonably reliable cost estimates.   
 
18 ANOPR at P 21. As noted above, Microsoft takes no position on whether the 
Commission should exercise jurisdiction over load interconnections. 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
10 
An additional benefit of interconnection study reform is that it could bring greater 
consistency to system-level load forecasting for system planners. Such a load forecasting 
process could provide greater transparency and accuracy by creating a feedback loop that 
allows large loads to validate the load levels utilities and regional planning entities are 
incorporating into their forecasts.         
C. 
Principle #7: Voluntarily Curtailable Loads 
The ANOPR proposes an expedited study process for the interconnection of large 
loads that voluntarily agree to be curtailable and hybrid facilities that agree to be curtailable 
and dispatchable.19 Microsoft agrees that regulatory frameworks that allow for voluntarily 
curtailable loads make sense and will be an important tool for accelerating the deployment of 
critical AI infrastructure. As discussed briefly below, most data centers today have limited 
curtailment capability. However, a regulatory framework that provides accelerated 
interconnection processes and clear market signals for curtailable loads should incentivize 
innovation in datacenter design and operations. Further, flexibility and demand response 
programs can unlock grid benefits, including relieving system constraints, enabling efficient 
use of existing capacity, and providing a bridge-to-power while the generation and 
transmission infrastructure expansion necessary for long-term firm reliable supplies is 
designed, permitted, and constructed. Microsoft supports consideration of reforms that enable 
utilities, power companies, and consumers to deploy grid-flexible technologies.  
Microsoft believes an expedited study process for curtailable loads and dispatchable 
hybrid facilities would be appropriate and consistent with the interests of the administration, 
so long as these arrangements do not create operational reliability risks and do not interfere 
 
19 Id. at P 25. 

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
11 
with the interconnection of critical nonflexible large loads. Technological and new market 
mechanisms that might be included in an expedited study process could include incremental 
datacenter operator-funded generation or storage and innovative load management 
capabilities. Microsoft’s data centers primarily host cloud services for its customers, 
including government and business customers who require service levels and data residency 
commitments that are not compatible with curtailing or shifting cloud computing operations 
from one datacenter to another.  
Microsoft encourages regulators, utilities, and grid operators—with consultation from 
datacenter operators—to create program clarity by identifying the type of flexibility that 
would bring value to the electric system and developing program parameters (such as 
maximum load curtailment times, frequency, and size) that are critical for datacenters to 
consider when making decisions about program participation.  
D. 
Principle #8: Direct Assignment of Network Costs 
The ANOPR proposes that large loads and hybrid facilities be responsible for 100% 
of the upfront costs of assigned network upgrades.20 Whatever the mechanism by which large 
loads or their load serving entities are directly assigned network upgrade costs, Microsoft 
recognizes its responsibility as a large retail electricity consumer to ensure the electric grid is 
reliable, resilient, affordable, and accessible for all. Today, Microsoft is already deploying 
billions of dollars to support the energy infrastructure build-out necessary to grow its 
business. That investment will continue as demand for Microsoft’s Azure cloud and AI 
services grows. More broadly, Microsoft is interested in innovative solutions that help to 
accelerate much-needed investment in the transmission system.  
 
20 Id. 

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
12 
Importantly, Microsoft pays for the electricity it consumes and for its share of 
infrastructure costs to generate and deliver electricity to datacenter sites. Microsoft supports 
the work of utilities and regulators to make sure these costs are transparently calculated and 
assigned to it and the other customers who benefit from those capital investments. This work 
helps ensure that Microsoft’s neighbors and the local community do not pay for Microsoft’s 
share of the costs.  
The ANOPR requests comment on whether network upgrade costs paid up-front by a 
large load should be offset through a crediting mechanism. If the network upgrades (with 
costs paid for up-front by the interconnecting loads they are assigned to) are providing broad 
benefits to other system users—for example, if another industrial customer benefits from the 
same infrastructure —Microsoft believes it would be fair to use a crediting mechanism or 
other arrangement that would capture the reliability and economic value those network 
upgrades provide other electricity consumers. One such approach may be similar to the 
crediting mechanisms used for interconnecting generator-only facilities. 
E. 
Principle #13: Transition Plan 
The ANOPR proposes that transition plans be developed for the treatment of large 
load interconnections that are already being studied for interconnection. Microsoft is 
supportive of transition plans that mitigate existing risk and do not create new regulatory risk 
or uncertainty for projects. A transition plan should provide regulatory stability for large 
loads that are already under study; large loads for which the study process has already been 
completed, payments made, and construction commenced; and for facilities that are phasing 
in or are fully operational.  

--- PAGE 13 ---
 
13 
III. 
CONCLUSION 
Microsoft appreciates DOE’s and the Commission’s leadership in seeking innovative 
solutions to the challenges of interconnection and providing electric service to new large 
loads and hybrid facilities. Microsoft respectfully requests that the Commission consider its 
comments in developing policies to support the availability of reliable, secure energy 
supplies to meet the needs of its datacenters and all system users. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
/s/ Jeffery Riles  
Jeffery Riles 
Director of Energy Markets, Americas  
Microsoft Corporation 
One Microsoft Way 
Redmond, WA 98052 
Tel. (425) 882-8080 
Email: Jeffriles@microsoft.com 
 
November 21, 2025 
