--- PAGE 1 ---
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System
) 
) 
) 
)
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
REPLY COMMENTS OF 
ENCHANTED ROCK, LLC 
Pursuant to the Federal Energy Commission (“FERC” or “Commission”)’s October 27, 
2025, Notice Inviting Comments in the captioned proceeding,1 Enchanted Rock, LLC 
(“Enchanted Rock”) hereby respectfully submits these reply comments (“Reply Comments”) for 
the Commission’s consideration in response to several initial comments related to the Secretary 
of Energy’s proposed Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking.2  As previously indicated,3
Enchanted Rock generally supports the Secretary of Energy’s position regarding the need to 
ensure “access to affordable, reliable, and secure electricity” by facilitating the connection of 
large loads “to the transmission system in a timely, orderly, and non-discriminatory manner.”4
Enchanted Rock hereby responds to the initial comments submitted by Vistra Corp. (“Vistra”), 
the California Independent System Operator Corporation (“CAISO”), Constellation Energy 
Generation, LLC (“Constellation”), Meta Platforms Inc. (“Meta”), and Google LLC (“Google”).  
These Reply Comments reiterate the urgent need to facilitate load flexibility as a mechanism to 
1 See Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Notice Inviting Comments, Docket No. 
RM26-4-000 (Oct. 27, 2025).  
2 See Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Secretary of Energy’s Proposed 
Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 23, 2025) (“ANOPR”). 
3 See Comments of Enchanted Rock, LLC, Docket No. RM26-4-00, at 1 (Nov. 21, 2025) (“Enchanted Rock Initial 
Comments”) (“Enchanted Rock supports the Commission’s efforts to initiate a rulemaking proceeding in order to 
consider reforms that will ensure the timely and orderly interconnection of large loads to the transmission system”). 
4 See Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Secretary of Energy’s Direction that the 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Initiate Rulemaking Procedures and Proposal Regarding the 
Interconnection of Large Loads Pursuant to the Secretary’s Authority Under Section 403 of the Department of 
Energy Organization Act, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 23, 2025). 

--- PAGE 2 ---
accomplish speed-to-power, which will reinforce grid reliability, support energy affordability, 
and offer a technology-neutral pathway to secure necessary generation.  
I.
REPLY COMMENTS 
a.
Need for Clear, Predictable Interconnection Rules 
The influx of large load facilities associated with the modern era of Artificial Intelligence 
(“AI”) innovation is contributing to an unprecedented scaling of electricity demand requiring 
solutions that consider long-term transmission planning, while acknowledging near-term 
realities.  Winning the AI race and bolstering the U.S. economy relies on the ability of federal 
and state regulators to create stable and predictable rules that encourage infrastructure investment 
and business confidence.   
Notably, Enchanted Rock agrees with Vistra that the regulation of transmission-level load 
interconnections by the Commission “does not imply a diminution of state authority in the areas 
that the [Federal Power Act (“FPA”)] reserves for state jurisdiction.”5  Vistra’s comments align 
with Enchanted Rock’s initial comments seeking further clarification on the dividing line 
between federal and state regulation of large load interconnection,6 and demonstrate the need for 
the Commission to promulgate a final rule that is clear, predictable and legally durable.      
b.
Need for Alignment with NERC Reliability Standards 
In support of establishing rules to clarify the treatment of large load interconnections, 
Enchanted Rock previously recommended that the Commission direct the North American 
5 See Comments of Vistra Corp, Docket No. RM26-4-000, at 13-14 (Nov. 21, 2025).  Enchanted Rock notes that the 
division of authority contemplated by the FPA provides that the Commission has jurisdiction over “the transmission 
of electric energy in interstate commerce and to the sale of electric energy at wholesale in interstate commerce” but 
makes clear that the Commission shall “not have jurisdiction, except as specifically provided in this subchapter and 
subchapter III of this chapter, over facilities used for the generation of electric energy or over facilities used in local 
distribution or only for the transmission of electric energy in intrastate commerce, or over facilities for the 
transmission of electric energy consumed wholly by the transmitter.” 16 U.S.C. § 824d(b)(1). 
6 See Enchanted Rock Initial Comments at 4-5. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
Electric Reliability Corporation (“NERC”) “to review and revise its standards to recognize the 
flexibility created by large loads deploying on-site or co-located generation as a standard 
operational and planning tool.”7  As Enchanted Rock indicated “[a]cknowledging load flexibility 
during the transmission planning and interconnection processes allows transmission planners to 
assume lower peak demand for the associated load facility, thereby reducing the immediate need 
for transmission upgrades and expediting interconnection timelines.”8
Enchanted Rock acknowledges CAISO’s comments that large loads connecting to the 
transmission system pose significant impacts on system reliability,9 and supports efforts to 
harmonize NERC’s reliability standards with the reforms being considered in this ANOPR 
proceeding.10  Enchanted Rock believes that such harmonization will promote the timely, orderly 
and predictable interconnection of large loads.  
c.
Need for Flexible Load Interconnection and Hybrid Resources
 Transmission system operators and planners urgently require a solution capable of 
efficiently managing the high volume of large load interconnections and accommodating the 
aggregate demand introduced by these facilities.  As supported by the record in the captioned 
proceeding to-date, operational flexibility provides a valuable means of supporting speed-to-
power.11  Indeed, hyperscale end-users, such as Google, have embraced the concept of gaining 
speed through flexibility.  For example, Google recommends that the Commission, in the near 
term, prioritize “facilitating the integration of co-located generation, including electric storage 
7 Enchanted Rock Initial Comments at 5. 
8 Id. at 5-6. 
9 See Comments of the California Independent System Operator Corporation, Docket No. RM26-4-000, at 1-2, 2-4, 
17 (Nov. 21, 2025). 
10 See also id. at 17 (“Given the rapid proliferation of these large loads, it is critical for the Commission, NERC, 
States, and utilities to adapt their standards and procedures as necessary to maintain reliability.”). 
11 See, e.g., Comments of L. Lynn Kiesleing, Ph.D., Docket No. RM26-4-000, at 5 (Nov. 21, 2025) (“[F]lexibility 
has become the binding constraint and the highest-value capability in modern power systems.”). 

--- PAGE 4 ---
resources, and load and electrically proximate load and generation, which unlock planning and 
siting efficiencies that minimize transmission impact.”12  This observation highlights the value of 
co-location and its practical application to facilitate speed-to-power, expedite study timelines, 
protect ratepayer affordability, and reduce strain on transmission infrastructure.  Indeed, 
Enchanted Rock supports the Commission considering “near-term steps that can help set the 
stage for longer-term solutions.”13
Enchanted Rock’s initial comments in this proceeding also reflected these sentiments, in 
particular, in discussing Enchanted Rock’s load co-located with dispatchable generation 
(“LCDG”) model.14  Further, a joint study process would allow LCDG and hybrid facilities to be 
studied based on their operational behavior and net load impacts, which Enchanted Rock 
believes will result in less strain on the transmission system, unlock available grid headroom, 
optimize existing transmission infrastructure and more accurately model the flexible capabilities 
of the system.  As such, Enchanted Rock encourages the Commission to adopt rules that will 
facilitate joint study processes (even if only for a provisional period) and that evaluate co-located 
and hybrid facilities based on their net impacts to the grid. Flexible models, such as LCDG, offer 
a practical approach to meet accelerating energy “without driving up costs or abandoning 
progress on efficiency, resilience and carbon reduction.”15  Growing demand “coupled with 
12 Comments of Google LLC, Docket No. RM26-4-000, at 6 (Nov. 21, 2025). 
13 See P. Asmus, Data Centers can Procure Affordable, Sustainable Energy in Today’s Constrained Power Markets,
Pathfinder Communications, at 2 (Sept. 2025), available at: https://enchantedrock.com/procuring-energy-for-data-
centers/. 
14 As Enchanted Rock explained, under the LCDG option, “load and generation may be separately metered but are 
studied together for purposes of retail load interconnection and integration, transmission and resource adequacy 
planning, and operations.”  See Large Loads Co-located at Generating Facilities, Response of Enchanted Rock, 
LLC, Docket No. AD24-11-000, et al., Section II (Apr. 23, 2025) (“Enchanted Rock Docket No. AD24-11 
Comments”).  
15 See P. Asmus, Data Centers can Procure Affordable, Sustainable Energy in Today’s Constrained Power Markets,
Pathfinder Communications, at 4 (Sept. 2025), available at: https://enchantedrock.com/procuring-energy-for-data-
centers/.

--- PAGE 5 ---
supply delays caused by lengthy permitting processes for generation and transmission 
infrastructure, as well as persistent supply chain delays for equipment, means the industry must 
devise immediately implementable solutions that optimize existing infrastructure and ensure that 
transmission expansion occurs in the most cost-effective way possible.”16
Further, Enchanted Rock acknowledges Constellation’s statement regarding the use of 
interruptible service, that “if the customer chooses, interruptible service can serve as a bridge to 
full service while transmission upgrades are completed.”17  Constellation appears essentially to 
be describing a temporary, flexible service arrangement that, if allowed by the Commission, 
would grant large loads the ability to operate prior to transmission expansions on an as-available 
basis.  Enchanted Rock notes that this concept aligns with aspects of Enchanted Rock’s proposed 
LCDG model because it would facilitate “a temporary flexibility option that large loads can opt 
into . . . therefore mitigate[ing] some . . . risks and allow[ing] for faster load interconnection.”18
Other mechanisms of bridging, such as temporary power solutions, are applicable to co-
location configurations as well.  Meta characterizes this as allowing “large loads to secure 
electric power quickly, and, in some instances, streamline the build out of necessary transmission 
infrastructure.”19  Data centers are able to connect to the grid faster “with options for incremental 
capacity additions in the future.”20  Co-locating generation with load allows system planners to 
16 Enchanted Rock Docket No. AD24-11 Comments at 3. 
17 See Supporting Comments of Constellation Energy Generation, LLC, Docket No. RM26-4-000, et al., at 24 (Nov. 
21, 2025). 
18 See id. at 5.  Moreover, as Enchanted Rock previously indicated, “[e]fforts such as Southwest Power Pool, Inc. 
(“SPP”)’s High Impact Large Load Generation Assessment (“HILLGA”) and anticipated Conditional High Impact 
Large Load Service (“CHILLS”) proposal are examples of proposals that will create expedited pathways for 
interconnecting large loads. The Commission should consider these examples as models for adoption by other 
Commission-jurisdictional grid operators.”  Enchanted Rock Initial Comments at 4 (citations omitted). 
19 Comments of Meta Platforms, Inc., Docket No. RM26-4-000, at 5 (Nov. 21, 2025). 
20 See P. Asmus, Data Centers can Procure Affordable, Sustainable Energy in Today’s Constrained Power Markets,
Pathfinder Communications, at 7 (Sept. 2025), available at: https://enchantedrock.com/procuring-energy-for-data-
centers/ (noting that load collocated with on-site generation is an approach that “is now commercially viable with 
recent regulatory reforms allowing DERs to offer a ‘bridge-to-grid’ service that is economically and environmentally 
sound”). 

--- PAGE 6 ---
study the assets as a combined facility, triggering fewer transmission upgrades and mitigating the 
associated costs that would otherwise be passed onto rate payers. 
II.
CONCLUSION
Enchanted Rock appreciates the opportunity to submit these Reply Comments and 
commends the Commission on initiating this proceeding.  Enchanted Rock has drawn the ideas 
and solutions discussed herein from various corners of the industry, with such ideas representing 
key areas of common ground needed to move forward.  Enchanted Rock urges the Commission 
to prioritize the development of clear transmission interconnection rules and consider the value 
of flexibility in accelerating large load interconnections, while protecting ratepayer affordability 
and grid reliability.  
Joel Yu 
Senior Vice President, Policy & External 
Affairs 
Enchanted Rock, LLC 
1113 Vine Street, Suite 101 
Houston, TX 77002  
Jyu@enchantedrock.com  
James Huang  
Director, Wholesale Markets Policy 
Enchanted Rock, LLC 
1113 Vine Street, Suite 101 
Houston, TX 77002 
Jhuang@enchantedrock.com
Respectfully submitted, 
/s/ Steven Shparber 
Steven Shparber 
Omar Bustami 
Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky and 
Popeo, P.C. 
555 12th Street NW, Suite 1100 
Washington, D.C. 20004 
(202) 434-7417 
SShparber@mintz.com  
OBustami@mintz.com  
Counsel to Enchanted Rock, LLC
Dated: December 5, 2025 

--- PAGE 7 ---
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that I have this day, caused the foregoing to be served upon each person 
designated on the official service list compiled by the Secretary in the captioned proceeding.   
Dated at Washington, D.C., this 5th day of December, 2025. 
/s/ Steven Shparber 
