--- PAGE 1 ---
1 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
  
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System 
) 
) 
 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
LS POWER’S COMMENTS ON THE PROPOSED  
ADVANCE NOTICE OF PROPOSED RULEMAKING 
 
LS Power Development, LLC (“LS Power”, or the “Company”) responds to the Federal 
Energy Regulatory Commission’s (“Commission”) Notice Inviting Comments1 on the Secretary 
of Energy’s October 23, 2025 Letter to the Commission, attaching a proposed Advance Notice of 
Proposed Rulemaking2 for large load interconnections to the interstate transmission grid. 
LS Power is a leading development, investment, and operating company focused on North 
American power and energy infrastructure. Founded in 1990, the Company has since raised more 
than $75 billion in debt and equity to invest in electric power infrastructure and services.  LS 
Power’s businesses across the energy industry include 21,000 megawatts of power generation from 
natural gas, wind, solar, utility-scale storage, coal, and both pumped storage and run of river hydro.  
The Company has also built, owned and/or operated distributed energy resource businesses, 
including demand response, energy efficiency, and electric vehicle charging infrastructure and 
services.  LS Power is also a leading national competitive transmission owner with 780+ miles of 
high-voltage transmission completed across 21 transmission projects, including several operating 
 
1 See Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Notice Inviting 
Comments, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (filed Oct. 27, 2025).  
2 Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Secretary of Energy's 
Letter re the Interconnection of Large Loads Pursuant to the Secretary's Authority under Section 
403 of the Department of Energy Organization Act and Advance Notice of Proposed 
Rulemaking, Docket RM26-4-000 (filed Oct. 27, 2025) (“Proposed ANOPR”). 

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
 
transmission utilities across five Regional Transmission Organizations and Independent System 
Operators that serve 27 U.S. states plus the District of Columbia, representing more than half of 
the U.S. population.  These collective businesses have spanned the North American continent, with 
LS Power investing in more than 400 projects, across 40 U.S. states and four Canadian provinces, 
creating thousands of jobs and tax payments that support local communities, schools, and 
municipalities.  We respectfully respond to the Secretary of Energy’s proposal with the voice of 
the entirety of our Company. 
LS Power supports the intent and legal foundation reflected in the Secretary’s proposal to 
the Commission.  As the Chair of the Commission has recognized, “[t]he electric transmission grid 
is the backbone of the American economy and essential to the national security of our country.”3  
As such, data center load policy is a topic of national importance, and the explosive growth of 
artificial intelligence and data centers will significantly shape the energy industry in the decades 
to come.  Thus, the integration of large loads into the nation’s energy and transmission landscape 
is an issue of national economic and security importance.   
Given the breadth of LS Power’s businesses, our aim is to suggest a workable path for the 
Commission to achieve its priorities, while enabling the Company and its industry competitors to 
continue to deploy capital in a responsive and efficient manner.  In doing so, LS Power is guided 
by its belief that fair, transparent, and competitive markets have facilitated and will continue to 
drive transmission grid reliability and energy supply sufficiency at least cost for all customers.  As 
a decades-long electric power industry participant and investor, LS Power offers this set of LS 
 
3 Building for the Future Through Electric Regional Transmission Planning and Cost Allocation, 
Order No. 1920, 187 FERC ¶ 61,068 (2024) (Phillips, Chairman, Clements, Comm’r jointly 
concurring at P 1). 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
 
Power policy principles to assist the Commission as it considers the Proposed ANOPR and a 
potential Notice of Proposed Rulemaking. 
 
 
 
LS POWER’S SIXTEEN POLICY PRINCIPLES TO 
ENHANCE THE INTEGRATION OF LARGE LOADS INTO 
THE NATION’S ENERGY LANDSCAPE 
 
Principle 1:  Consistent with the Administration’s directive,4 federal agencies should eliminate 
regulations and simplify existing regulatory burdens that harm American competitiveness.  As a 
logical corollary, agencies should avoid creating new regulatory burdens.   
Principle 2:  The interconnection of new large load customers to the interstate transmission grid 
is a Commission-jurisdictional undertaking.5  The Proposed ANOPR correctly outlines the 
Commission’s exclusive jurisdiction over the interstate transmission grid.6  Although the ultimate 
energy consumption for new large load customers may implicate state retail service jurisdiction, it 
is clear under the Federal Power Act and U.S. Supreme Court precedent that the interconnection 
of large load customers to the interstate transmission grid is squarely within the Commission’s 
jurisdiction. 
 
4 The White House, Reducing Anti-Competitive Regulatory Barriers (Apr. 9, 2025), 
https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/04/reducing-anti-competitive-regulatory-
barriers/ 
5 N.Y. v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1 (2002); Pub. Util. Comm’n of R.I. vs. Attleboro Steam & Elec. Co., 
273 U.S. 83, 89 (1927); Mandatory Reliability Standards for the Bulk-Power System, Order No. 
693, 118 FERC ¶ 61,218 (2007); Revisions to Electric Reliability Organization Definition of 
Bulk Electric System, Order No. 743, 133 FERC ¶ 61,150 (2010). 
6 See, e.g., Comments of LS Power Grid, LLC in Response to the Commission’s Advance Notice 
of Proposed Rulemaking, RM21-17-000 (filed Oct. 12, 2021) at 10, 41, 45-46, 49-60, 112-119. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
 
Principle 3:  In exercising its exclusive jurisdiction over the interstate transmission grid, including 
the interconnection of large loads or generation resources to serve those loads, Commission 
policies should encourage early coordination with state public service commissions and other 
relevant state bodies.  States maintain oversight of retail electric service and siting for both needed 
transmission and generation, as well as the siting of the new large loads seeking accelerated entry.  
Early coordination within Commission jurisdictional transmission planning and interconnection 
processes will prevent overlapping or inconsistent state level activities and promote regulatory 
consistency, enhancing economic efficiency allowing all market participants to meet the energy 
infrastructure needs facing the nation due to growing large load demands.  
Principle 4:  The Commission should continue to rely on competitive markets – both in generation 
and transmission planning and development – to incentivize efficient generation and transmission 
investment, to ensure cost discipline and schedule accountability, and to unleash innovation going 
forward.  Competition remains a necessary and important component of solving complex energy 
problems. 
Principle 5:  The Commission should integrate new large loads into the Commission-jurisdictional 
transmission grid through revisions to existing regional transmission planning and transmission 
interconnection frameworks rather than establishing additional ad hoc, piecemeal processes solely 
for large-load interconnections. The Commission should focus on improving coordination among 
the states, regional transmission planning entities, consumers, and large load and generation 
transmission interconnection customers through revisions to existing interconnection processes.  
This will facilitate economic efficiency through expedited processes with well-designed 
parameters for large load customers, including those that bring their own generation.   

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
 
Principle 6:  New large load must be well-defined. The Commission must define it clearly, based 
on an agreed upon standard, such as whether new large load would have a significant impact to 
the transmission and energy supply system or based upon load megawatts.   
Principle 7:  It is critically important for the Commission to incent large load to bring its own 
generation (referred to in the Proposed ANOPR as “hybrid facilities”), and we urge the 
Commission to craft final rules with this in mind. 
Principle 8:  Large load interconnection rules should provide an expedited process for generation 
paired with co-located new large load. In order to qualify for expedited interconnection 
consideration, the large load must bring generation that matches its maximum capacity and energy 
needs.  In those markets where generation receives accreditation that may vary from its nameplate 
rating, the accredited capacity assigned to the supply must be sufficient to match the size of the 
new large load seeking accelerated interconnection approval.   
Further, for flexible large loads or hybrid facilities, i.e., curtailable, the rules should provide 
for integrating that flexibility into the interconnection commitments, to expedite interconnection 
by avoiding or deferring transmission system upgrades.  Hybrid facilities interconnecting on an 
expedited basis (deferred transmission upgrades) can be fully curtailable.  If associated generation 
is not providing sufficient energy for its load, then the load cannot look to the grid for its energy 
and if load is less than the generation supply, the generation may not come onto the grid (other 
than emergency dispatch).  In those cases, it is also critical that the relevant regional energy 
markets send the appropriate price signal to indicate scarcity of supply resources such that the 
curtailment of flexible large loads cannot be used to undermine competitive energy market pricing 
by failing to reflect curtailable load in resource adequacy planning.  The organized markets have 
found a way to value flexible service.  Existing demand response frameworks from organized 

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
 
markets provide a strong framework for managing flexible load, and lessons from demand 
response frameworks in organized markets can be applied to integrate flexibility into large load 
interconnection agreements.   
Principle 9:  When a new large load requires system or network upgrades, the new large load 
customer should bear ultimate cost responsibility consistent with cost causation and beneficiary 
pays principles.   
Principle 10:  Attracting the long-term capital needed to meet the infrastructure needs created by 
the surge in large-load demand requires that all infrastructure investments receive just and 
reasonable compensation, established to the maximum possible extent through independent 
planning and competition.  For example, the Commission could allow the customer (below 100 
kV) or regional planner (above 100 kV) flexibility and opportunity to evaluate on a not unduly 
discriminatory or preferential basis the selection of the owner of those transmission facilities.  
Given that the number of new or expanded transmission facilities is expected to be substantial, 
the Commission should ensure that existing transmission owners are not subject to the requirement 
of owning and maintaining those facilities absent just and reasonable compensation.  To the extent 
that the Commission is considering a requirement that transmission owners own and maintain 
facilities to accommodate the interconnection of large loads, there must be an ability for it to 
recover its cost and earn a return on those facilities. 
Principle 11:  The existing generation interconnection frameworks should be used and improved 
upon to establish standardized pro-forma terms for large load interconnections.  To the extent 
practicable, these terms should cover, e.g., security, milestones, etc., and other mechanisms 
designed to protect consumers, eliminate undue discrimination, and ensure just and reasonable 
rates.  Furthermore, there should be transparency with queues for large load interconnection to the 

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
 
Commission jurisdictional transmission grid, similar to generation interconnection information 
that is published.  The Commission has specifically found that existing, pro-forma Designated 
Entity Agreements developed through the transmission competitive processes offer superior 
accountability on project schedule and project cost oversight, and provisions from those superior 
oversight agreements related to cost and schedule could be incorporated into the large load 
interconnection pro-forma context.7    
Principle 12:  The Commission should require that hybrid facility (large load and associated 
matching generation) interconnections with the interstate transmission grid be studied together 
where they are anticipated to interconnect electrically close to each other. Coordinated study of 
load and supply ensures that transmission system upgrades are sized appropriately, are cost-
effective, and are reflective of the combined impact of both interconnections and that any required 
resource adequacy analysis can be simultaneously undertaken.  This approach complements the 
planning coordination objectives under Order Nos. 1000 and 1920, and the interconnection 
reforms of Order No. 2023, promoting a holistic view of system needs and avoiding inefficient or 
redundant infrastructure development.  Operational requirements necessary to implement 
expedited interconnection, including operational constraints related to required studies are an 
important component in the study and must be developed.  
Principle 13:  Large-load interconnection policies should be consistent with existing energy 
supply competitive market and competitive transmission principles across regions.  LS Power 
maintains that competitive markets have been and still are the most efficient and cost-effective 
way to: (1) incent investment in electric power supply and capacity, (2) generate that electric 
power, and (3) deliver that electric power to American homes and businesses through the 
 
7 Am. Mun. Power, Inc. v. PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 188 FERC ¶ 61,055 (2024). 

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 
 
Commission jurisdictional transmission system.  Therefore, it stands to reason that competitive 
market principles should be integrated into the large load interconnection process, so that the 
market can continue to send price signals consistent with the cost to build new generation and 
transmission. 
Principle 14:  Any final large load interconnection rules should recognize and prioritize economic 
efficiency for newly interconnecting and existing transmission customers on the interstate 
transmission system. The Commission should allow and encourage competition for the 
infrastructure additions identified through the large load interconnection process and focus on 
reducing the costs of interconnection for both load, generation, and consumers.  While the states, 
not the Commission, have jurisdiction over retail rates, such an approach can address and even 
mitigate concerns around consumer affordability. 
Principle 15:  The Commission must ensure that regional planners align their Resource Adequacy 
analyses of large load and hybrid facilities interconnections with regional transmission planning 
assumptions. 
Principle 16:  Large-load interconnection should be integrated into existing planning and study 
processes for generation interconnection.  Large-load integration should be handled within the 
same coordinated regional planning and study framework used for generation and reliability.  This 
approach allows all transmission users to be evaluated under consistent assumptions and timelines, 
ensures efficient buildout, and helps maintain system reliability. Robust regional planning is 
necessary for transmission 100kV and above.  Large loads often drive substantial network changes 
that extend beyond the immediate point of interconnection.  These network additions impact the 
entire regional grid and should be addressed through independent regional planning employing 
competitive principles, and applying beneficiary pays principles as appropriate.  

--- PAGE 9 ---
9 
 
LS POWER COMMENTS ON SPECIFIC DOE ANOPR PRINCIPLES (BASED ON LS 
POWER POLICY PRINCIPLES REGARDING THE INTEGRATION OF LARGE 
LOADS INTO THE NATION’S ENERGY LANDSCAPE) AND SPECIFIC LS POWER 
RECOMMENDATIONS ON THE SCOPE OF REQUESTED FUTURE COMMENTS  
DOE 
Proposed 
ANOPR 
Principle No. 
 
DOE ANOPR Proposed Principle 
LS Power Reaction to and Addition 
to Proposed ANOPR Principle 
ANOPR 
Principle 1 
(paragraph 18) 
First, to avoid even arguably affecting the States' 
jurisdiction over generation facilities, facilities used 
in local distribution or only for the transmission of 
electric energy in intrastate commerce, or 
transmissions consumed by the transmitter, the 
Commission's jurisdiction should be limited to 
interconnections directly to transmission facilities, 
consistent with the Commission's seven-factor test. 
(footnotes omitted) 
Agree (LS Power Principle 2).  
Footnote 6 of these comments 
provides reference to extensive past 
briefing by LS Power related to the 
Commission’s exclusive jurisdiction 
over the interstate transmission system 
and the seven-factor test for 
determining the division between 
Commission jurisdictional interstate 
transmission and the distribution 
system.  
 
As a matter of coordination, the 
Commission should also seek 
comment on how to encourage 
coordination with state commissions 
or other relevant state agencies, even 
though the Commission has exclusive 
jurisdiction over the interstate 
transmission grid.  States maintain 
oversight of retail service, as well as 
generation and transmission siting, 
and early coordination will prevent 
overlap and promote consistency (LS 
Power Principles 1 and 3). 
 
ANOPR 
Principle 2 
(paragraph 19) 
Second, consistent with the Commission's pro forma 
LGIP and LGIA, the reforms should only apply to 
new loads greater than 20 MW and, for hybrid 
facilities, where the load is greater than 20 MW. We 
seek comment on alternative thresholds, including 
whether such a threshold is necessary at all. 
Agree with direction, but Principle 
needs further development.  Although 
LS Power acknowledges that this 
approach is consistent with 
Commission’s pro forma LGIP and 
LGIA, LS Power supports a robust 
comment period on alternative “large 
load” thresholds (LS Power Principle 
6).  We agree with the need to develop 
a definition of large load and would 

--- PAGE 10 ---
10 
 
recommend that it be defined based on 
an agreed upon standard, such as 
whether load would have a significant 
impact on the transmission grid and 
whether such a definition may have 
regional variations warranted based on 
identified criteria.  The comment 
period should also allow for comment 
on defining the impact to system in the 
context of clarifying the large load 
definition.  The Commission should 
also seek comment on the definition 
and scope of “new” in the context of 
new large load. 
 
ANOPR 
Principle 3 
(paragraph 20) 
Third, to the extent practicable, load and hybrid 
facilities should be studied together with generating 
facilities. Such an approach will allow for efficient 
siting of loads and generating facilities and thereby 
minimize the need for costly network upgrades. For 
example, siting a large load near or at the same point 
of interconnection as a new generating facility could 
reduce the network upgrades needed to interconnect 
only the load or only the generating facility. 
 
Agree with direction, but Principle 
needs further development.  In 
addition, the Commission should seek 
comment on how generation must 
match load and how and whether 
supply accreditation methodologies 
should apply rather than the 
generator’s installed capacity rating 
(LS Power Principle 8).  
ANOPR 
Principle 4 
(paragraph 21)  
Fourth, like generating facilities, load and hybrid 
facilities should be subject to standardized study 
deposits, readiness requirements, and withdrawal 
penalties. These provisions deter speculative 
projects and provide transmission providers with 
more useful information to more accurately forecast 
demand on their systems. We seek comment on the 
extent to which the existing study deposits, readiness 
requirements, and withdrawal penalties can be 
adopted. We also seek comment on whether 
additional commitments or financial penalties would 
be appropriate. 
Agree with direction, but Principle 
needs further development.  The 
Commission should establish 
standardized, pro-forma terms for 
large load interconnection using the 
existing generation interconnection 
process as the basis, to the extent 
practicable (LS Power Principle 5).  
These security requirements, 
milestones, etc. are examples of 
productive standardization efforts that 
will mitigate stranded asset risks and 
thereby protect consumers.  The 
Commission has specifically found 
that existing, pro-forma Designated 
Entity Agreements developed through 
the transmission competitive processes 
offer superior accountability on 
project schedule and project cost 
oversight, and the Commission should 
seek comments on how provisions 

--- PAGE 11 ---
11 
 
from those superior oversight 
agreements related to cost and 
schedule could be incorporated into 
the large load interconnection pro 
forma agreements (LS Power 
Principle 11).  In addition, the 
Commission should seek comment on 
how to best integrate large-load 
interconnections into existing regional 
planning processes.  Large-load 
interconnections should be handled 
with the same regional planning and 
study frameworks used for 
coordinated regional planning and 
study framework used for generation 
and reliability (LS Power Principles 
11, 12 and 16).  The Commission 
should seek comment on how all 
transmission users can be evaluated 
under consistent assumptions and 
timelines, with appropriate or 
standardized transparency in the 
process. 
   
ANOPR 
Principle 5 
(paragraph 22) 
Fifth, hybrid facilities should be studied based on 
the amount of injection and/or withdrawal rights 
requested. For example, a hybrid facility consisting 
of a 500MW load and a 600MW generating facility 
may seek no withdrawal rights and 100MW of 
injection rights. This provides incentives for co-
location with new generation facilities 
and ensures efficient buildout of the transmission 
system. (footnote omitted) 
 
Agree.  In addition, the Commission 
should seek comment on how to create 
an approach that incents large load to 
bring its own generation (LS Power 
Principle 7). 
ANOPR 
Paragraph 6 
(paragraph 23) 
Sixth, any hybrid interconnection shall be required 
to install the system protection facilities necessary to 
prevent unauthorized injections or withdrawals that 
exceed the respective rights. We seek comment on 
whether other operational limitations should be 
considered. We also seek comment on the minimum 
technical requirements for such system protection 
facilities, whether a hybrid interconnection customer 
should be subject to penalties for unauthorized 
injections or withdrawals, how any such penalties 
should be designed, and how such penalties should 
be allocated to other transmission customers. 
Agree.  In addition, the Commission 
should seek comment on how to 
integrate hybrid resources into 
regional markets in a manner that does 
not undermine the generation market 
design in sending efficient price 
signals (LS Power Principles 4 and 
13). 
 

--- PAGE 12 ---
12 
 
ANOPR 
Principle 7 
(paragraph 24) 
Seventh, the interconnection study of large loads 
that agree to be curtailable and hybrid facilities that 
agree to be curtailable and dispatchable should be 
expedited. The system operator's ability to control 
such facilities through curtailment and/or dispatch 
must be sufficient for the system operator to 
integrate the facility into both operations and system 
planning. This ensures the timely and orderly 
addition of large loads to the transmission system in 
a safe, reliable, and non-discriminatory manner. We 
seek comment on whether this should be 
accomplished through a serial interconnection study 
process or by some other means. We also seek 
comment on appropriate deadlines for such an 
expedited study process, including whether such 
studies can be completed in 60 days. 
Agree with direction, but Principle 
needs further development.  The 
Commission should seek further 
comment on criteria for expedited 
treatment, such as when large loads 
are matched with sufficient new 
generation to address the load’s energy 
and capacity needs at or near the same 
point of interconnection (LS Power 
Principle 8).  The Commission should 
also seek comment on requirements 
for how the large load study is 
incorporated into regional planning 
process (LS Power Principle 16).  The 
Commission should also create rules 
to prevent the curtailment of large 
loads from undermining competitive 
price signals in the energy markets 
(LS Power Principle 8). 
 
ANOPR 
Principle 8 
(paragraph 25) 
Eighth, load and hybrid facilities should be 
responsible for 100% of the network upgrades that 
they are assigned through the interconnection 
studies. We seek comment on whether such costs 
should be offset through a crediting mechanism and, 
if so, over how many years. (footnote omitted) 
This principle requires further 
development.  Consistent with LS 
Power Principle 9, when a new large 
load requires system or network 
upgrades, the new large load customer 
should bear ultimate cost 
responsibility consistent with cost 
causation and beneficiary pays 
principles. 
 
The Commission should seek 
additional comment on whether there 
should be a corresponding right for the 
interconnecting customer to retain and 
utilize the incremental system 
headroom it has created for a period 
equal to the period allowed for 
generation to fully utilize capacity 
created on the system through 
generator system upgrades.  
 
 
 

--- PAGE 13 ---
13 
 
ANOPR 
Principle 9 
(paragraph 26)  
Ninth, to the extent the interconnection customer is 
not the transmission owner, the interconnection 
customer shall be afforded the same (or equivalent) 
option to build as currently provided to generator 
interconnection customers. 
Agree as allowing competitive options 
are necessary component of cost-
effective planning (LS Power 
Principle 4).   
 
In addition, the Commission should 
seek comment on considering 
additional ways to manage or reduce 
interconnection costs overall.  For 
example, consistent with the 
Commission’s prior determinations on 
facilities constituting the interstate 
bulk power system (Order Nos. 693, 
743) transmission system changes 
driven by large load interconnection 
above 100kV should be regionally 
planned through independent regional 
planning. Further, to ensure cost and 
development timeline competitiveness 
for interconnection customers the 
Commission could subject any 
significant network changes to cost 
saving competitive processes.  The 
Commission should seek comment on 
whether the network upgrades 
identified through existing 
interconnection procedures and 
contemplated large load 
interconnection procedures should 
continue to be excluded from the 
Commission’s mandated removal of 
incumbent development preferences or 
how paying interconnection customers 
could be afforded the flexibility to 
assign or compete to qualified 
transmission developers any option to 
build or own their interconnection 
facilities (LS Power Principles 13 and 
14). 
 
Finally, the Commission should ask 
for comments on recent legal 
precedent.  In Ameren Services Co. v. 
FERC (2018), the D.C. Circuit ruled 
that denying a return on assets that 
utilities are obligated to own and 

--- PAGE 14 ---
14 
 
maintain undermines the capital 
attraction principles established in 
Hope and Bluefield.  The Commission 
should seek comment on how this 
legal precedent applies in this context 
and ensure any large load 
interconnection policy will preserve 
investment incentives for both utilities 
and independent transmission 
developers. (LS Power Principle 10) 
 
ANOPR 
Principle 10 
(paragraph 27) 
Tenth, an existing generating facility that seeks to 
enter a partial suspension to serve a new load at the 
same location must go through a system support 
resource (SSR)/reliability must run (RMR) type 
study. The study must consider system conditions, 
including forecasted load growth, at least three years 
after the proposed suspension date. The partial 
suspension can only proceed after any network 
upgrades needed to ensure reliability are placed into 
service. Any such network upgrades shall be the 
responsibility of the generating facility. We invite 
comments on whether and how resource adequacy 
should be considered in the SSRIRMR type study. 
 
Disagree.  LS Power does not support 
this principle and supports the EPSA 
position on this principle. 
 
EPSA rejects the underlying premise 
that existing generation that is moved 
behind the meter to serve data center 
load is akin to a partial suspension or 
otherwise warrants RMR/SSR type 
analysis for deactivating resources. 
Such resources could still be serving 
the grid, depending on whether and 
how the load is connected, and the 
nature of the flexibility of the load. 
Any analysis of such arrangements 
should not assess resource adequacy 
issues which even fall outside the 
scope of ISO/RTO deactivation 
analyses.  Any reliability assessment 
for co-located or hybrid arrangements 
must be limited to whether and how 
the proposed new load can be reliably 
and safely interconnected to the grid. 
As an example, PJM’s Necessary 
Study process engages in such an 
assessment. To introduce resource 
adequacy as a consideration in 
determining whether and at what cost 
to interconnect new large load would 
necessarily discriminate against that 
new load and existing generators. 
Under fundamental open access 
principles, there can be no such 
differentiated treatment between new 

--- PAGE 15 ---
15 
 
and existing load or between new and 
existing generation. 
 
In addition, the Commission should 
seek comment on ensuring that 
resource adequacy analysis is aligned 
with the regional transmission 
planning process and avoid reliance on 
transmission reliability mechanisms 
such as RMRs  (LS Power principle 
15). 
  
ANOPR 
Principle 11 
(paragraph 28) 
Eleventh, utilities serving large loads, including 
those at hybrid facilities, should be responsible for 
transmission service based on their withdrawal 
rights, as that value amount reflects the quantity of 
capacity and energy that is being transmitted across 
the transmission system to the load. 
 
Agree. 
ANOPR 
Principle 12 
(paragraph 29) 
Twelfth, utilities serving large loads, including those 
at hybrid facilities, should be responsible for 
ancillary services based on peak demand, without 
consideration of any co-located generation. Any co-
located generating facilities will similarly be fully 
compensated for the provision of ancillary services. 
 
Agree.  
ANOPR 
Principle 13 
(paragraph 30) 
Thirteenth, there must be a plan to implement these 
proposed reforms. We seek comment on appropriate 
transition plans, including the treatment of large load 
interconnections that are already being studied for 
interconnection. 
 
Agree.  
ANOPR 
Principle 14 
(paragraph 31) 
Fourteenth, utilities serving large loads must meet 
all applicable NERC reliability standards and OATT 
provisions. Utilities and we must be prepared to 
revise large load interconnection procedures and 
agreements, as necessary. NERC should review its 
reliability standards to determine if new registration 
categories or new or modified reliability standards 
are required to ensure reliability of the BES. 
Agree.  LS Power supports this 
requirement. 
 
The Commission should seek 
additional comment on how to 
maintain reliability through Order No. 
1000/1920 planning region integration 
of large load interconnections, and 
avoid duplication of approaches.  
Reliability must remain central and 
large-load interconnections studied or 
built outside the regional planning 
process could reduce system visibility, 
transparency, and complicate NERC 

--- PAGE 16 ---
16 
 
compliance.  Integrating large load 
projects within existing Order No. 
1000/1920 planning processes best 
ensures consistent modelling, 
coordinated protection schemes, and 
situational awareness for operators. 
(LS Power Principle 12). 
 
 
 
November 21, 2025  
 
 
        Respectfully submitted, 
Marjorie Rosenbluth Philips 
Senior Vice President, Wholesale 
Market Policy 
LS Power Development, LLC 
1700 Broadway, 35th Floor 
New York, NY 10019 
(610) 401-3612 
mphilips@lspower.com 
 
Sharon K. Segner 
Senior Vice President, Transmission Policy 
LS Power Development, LLC 
1455 Pennsylvania Avenue, Suite 474 
Washington, DC 20004 
(636) 484-0379 
ssegner@lspower.com 
 
 
 
Michael R. Engleman 
Michael R. Engleman 
Engleman Fallon, PLLC 
1717 K St., N.W. 
Suite 900 
Washington, D.C. 20006 
(202) 464-1330 
mengleman@efenergylaw.com 
 
Counsel to LS Power Development, LLC, 
 
