--- PAGE 1 ---
1 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
) 
 
    
Ensuring the Timely and Orderly   
) 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads 
 
) 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000  
 
  
 
 
 
 
) 
 
 
 
 
 
REPLY COMMENTS OF 
ELECTRICITY CUSTOMER ALLIANCE 
 
The Electricity Customer Alliance (ECA) respectfully submits these reply comments on 
the Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANOPR) submitted to the Commission by the 
Secretary of Energy on October 23, 2025, and the Notice Inviting Comments issued by the 
Commission on October 27, 2025.1 ECA submitted initial comments on November 21, 2025.2  
ECA reiterates here that Commission action on large load interconnection to the 
transmission system is needed to ensure just and reasonable rates and prevent undue discrimination 
and will open new opportunities to meet the needs of new large loads for “speed to power” while 
protecting other customers from harm. The initial comments received by the Commission 
document two key challenges that customers from across the spectrum are facing when it comes 
to serving new large loads while ensuring affordability: 
1. Large load customers like data centers, manufacturers, and industry are seeking 
opportunities to pay for and accelerate timelines for the generation and transmission 
infrastructure needed to serve them, but are stymied by inconsistent and unclear rules 
for large load interconnection to transmission, a lack of clear paths to line up load 
interconnection with the interconnection and delivery of generation they construct or 
contract to serve them, and fractured and incomplete transmission planning processes 
 
1 Ensuring the Timely and Orderly Interconnection of Large Loads, Notice Inviting Comments, Docket No. RM26-
4-000 (October 27, 2025). 
2 ECA is a growing national coalition dedicated to advancing customer-centric solutions that modernize the grid, 
support economic growth and the development of digital infrastructure and advanced manufacturing, and keep 
electricity affordable and reliable for all users. Members and participants in ECA include a diverse range of 
customers, from large customers in the technology, industrial, and manufacturing segments, to smaller commercial 
customers and residential ratepayer advocates. ECA works to elevate customer perspectives and align customer 
segments to identify and advance common ground approaches to the challenges of load growth, grid expansion and 
modernization, electricity market governance and accountability, and rising electricity affordability concerns. 

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
 
that fail to holistically account for projected new large loads and associated generation; 
and 
 
2. Other customers lack sufficient transparency into how costs are incurred and allocated 
and in forecasts of new large loads to have confidence that investments made to serve 
new large loads are not being shifted to them or exposing them to stranded cost risk.   
 
Commission action on the proposals laid out by the Secretary in the ANOPR would provide a 
critically needed catalyst for addressing these problems and a foundation for winning the Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) race, capturing economic development from expanded manufacturing and 
industry, and keeping electricity reliable and affordable for all customers. To be sure, these 
challenges do not admit of easy answers, and the details of the precise solutions developed will 
matter greatly. That is why ECA suggests a guidelines-based approach, requiring transmission 
providers across the country to demonstrate that they have in place procedures and agreements for 
large load interconnection to the transmission system that meet minimum guidelines prescribed by 
the Commission. This approach would allow the Commission to spur reforms needed to remedy 
the potential for unjust and unreasonable rates or unduly discriminatory transmission service while 
allowing for continued innovation in meeting the needs of large load customers, protecting other 
customers from cost shift and stranded cost risks, and addressing the unavoidable confluence of 
federal and state authority in this area. 
 
In these reply comments, ECA:  
• Highlights the challenges of the status quo and the need for reform that supports 
Commission action on the Secretary’s requests; 
 
• Addresses comments seeking to unduly limit the scope of Commission-directed 
reforms in response to the ANOPR; and  
 
• Reiterates our recommendation that the Commission utilize a guidelines-based 
approach rather than pro forma procedures and agreements, which will allow for 
flexibility on compliance to address differences in the interplay of transmission-level 
interconnection procedures and agreements with retail regulation in among states, 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
 
avoid disrupting processes that are working well today, and allow for innovation in 
interconnection processes and practices. 
 
I. 
The Need for Reform of Procedures and Agreements for Large Load 
Interconnection to the Transmission System. 
 
The current circumstances facing the Commission-jurisdictional transmission system and 
wholesale power markets—characterized by, among other things, rapidly accelerating growth in 
demand from large load customers, slow development of new generation and transmission 
infrastructure to serve those demands, tightening market conditions leading to rising prices, and a 
lack of clear paths to interconnect emerging large loads and accelerate development of generating 
and storage resources to serve them—demonstrate the need for Commission action to reform 
procedures and agreements governing large load interconnection to the transmission system.  
The principle purpose of the Federal Power Act (FPA) is “to encourage the orderly 
development of plentiful supplies of electricity and natural gas at reasonable prices.”3 Numerous 
commenters, including ECA, explain the challenges that unclear or non-existent pathways and 
frameworks to interconnection large loads and develop generation and transmission to serve those 
loads are creating for ensuring that plentiful supplies of electricity are available to ensure just and 
reasonable rates for all customers while meeting the national security and economic imperatives 
underlying the development of data centers, reshoring of manufacturing, and expansion of U.S.-
based industry.4 Commenters explain, inter alia, that access to sufficient energy is a primary 
impediment to expanding economic activity in the United States;5 that current tariffs and practices 
are not securing the investment in electric transmission and generation capacity that needed to 
meet the requirements of the digital economy and reshoring of manufacturing and heavy industry 
 
3 NAACP v. FPC, 425 U.S. 662, 669-70 (1976). 
4 ECA Comments at 6-9, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Nov. 21, 2025). 
5 See, e.g., Oracle Comments at 1, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Nov. 21, 2025). 

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
 
and keep electricity affordable and reliable;6 and that the opaque nature of existing procedures and 
agreements is preventing large load customers and suppliers from developing reliable and cost-
effective power supply arrangements and exacerbating the risk of undue discrimination.7      
To be sure, the Commission must have an evidentiary basis to support taking action on 
reforms to jurisdictional rates and terms and conditions of service. Some commenters and 
observers, however, appear to wrongly suggest that the Commission must present empirical 
evidence or direct examples of currently existing unjust and unreasonable rates in every region 
where the rule would take effect.8 While ECA believes the above-described substantial evidence 
shows that current rates and practices are just and unreasonable and require reform, we note that 
in exercising its authority under the FPA to reform existing rates and practices, the Commission 
may rely on evidence of unjust and unreasonable rates or an economic theory that unjust and 
unreasonable rates will occur without action. The Commission “do[es] not need to conduct 
experiments in order to rely on the prediction that an unsupported stone will fall.”9 It is entirely 
reasonable for the Commission to base action here on the unremarkable theory that unprecedented 
growth in demand from large load customers, combined with unclear and uncertain procedures 
and agreements for interconnection of such loads to the transmission system that limit the 
development of new infrastructure to serve them, will lead to unjust and unreasonable rates and 
the potential for undue discrimination in the provision of transmission service. 
 
 
 
6 See, e.g., Microsoft Comments at 1-2, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Nov. 21, 2025); Google Comments at 1-3, Docket 
No. RM26-4-000 (Nov. 21, 2025). 
7 See, e.g., Electric Power Supply Association Comments at 6-8, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Nov. 21, 2025). 
8 See, e.g., Louisiana and Mississippi Public Service Commission Comments at 6, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Nov. 
21, 2025). 
9 Assoc. Gas Distributors v. FERC, 824 F.2d 981, 1008 (D.C. Cir. 1987); see also South Carolina Pub. Serv. 
Comm’n v. FERC, 762 F.3d 41, (D.C. Cir. 2014). 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
 
II. 
Limiting the Reach of the Reforms Directed by the Commission as Suggested by 
Some Commenters Would Provide an Incomplete Remedy to the Problems that 
Require Commission-Directed Reforms. 
 
Several commenters suggest limiting or cabining the scope of the reforms to procedures 
and agreements for the interconnection of large loads to the transmission that the Commission 
proposes to direct in response to the Secretary’s ANOPR. ECA agrees that the Commission should 
recognize the need for flexibility to accommodate regional differences, avoid interrupting existing 
processes that are working well, and transparently and cooperatively address the complexities of 
the confluence of federal and state jurisdiction with respect to large load interconnection and the 
need for transparency and consumer protection. It is for these reasons that ECA suggested a 
guideline-based compliance approach rather than across-the-board pro forma reforms.10 However, 
several comments and proposals would, if adopted, limit the scope of Commission-directed 
reforms in ways that would fail to provide a complete remedy to the acute risks of unjust and 
unreasonable rates and undue discrimination requiring action here. An incomplete remedy would 
not be legally or commercially durable, potentially creating more uncertainty rather than resolving 
it.  
As a threshold matter with respect to the reach of Commission reforms here, ECA disagrees 
with commenters and observers that posit that Commission regulation of procedures and 
agreements governing interconnection of large loads to FERC-jurisdictional transmission facilities 
would amount to regulation of retail sales or preemption of state authority over such sales.11 
Commission regulation of the rates, terms, and conditions of interconnection to transmission 
facilities subject to FERC jurisdiction and related transmission service does not constitute 
 
10 Comments of ECA at 14-16, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Nov. 21, 2025). 
11 See, e.g., Comments of National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners, Docket No. RM26-4-000 
(Nov. 21, 2025).  

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
 
regulation of any retail sale. Regulation of those sales is reserved to the states, a point the ANOPR 
makes explicitly.12 Commenters and observers claiming that Commission action here would result 
in preemption have not demonstrated that states would be prevented from regulating retail sales or 
enforcing retail franchise laws.  
As we emphasized in our initial comments, interconnection of large loads to the 
transmission network is an issue squarely at the confluence of federal and state jurisdiction, and 
Commission action to improve procedures and agreements for large load interconnection to 
transmission facilities will have potential implications for states and how they execute their 
responsibilities to regulate of retail sales. These realities call for the Commission to address the 
potential implications up front, ensure that transmission providers increase the transparency of the 
costs of interconnection and how those costs will flow to the states (so they can be fairly allocated 
in retail rates to those who cause them), and utilize the variety of tools available to increase federal 
and state coordination (which are described in ECA’s initial comments).13  
In addition, the Commission should reject the suggestion that it limit the scope of its 
required reforms to only those systems where rates for transmission service are unbundled (which 
could be interpreted as a request to limit the reach of reforms only to Regional Transmission 
Organizations and Independent System Operators (RTOs/ISOs)).14 There is no evidence to 
presume that the risks to unjust and unreasonable rates and the provision of non-discriminatory 
transmission service caused by rapid growth in large loads and uncertainty in the processes for 
interconnection of large loads to the transmission system are not present in bundled and unbundled 
regions alike. The fact that one or more transmission providers operating with bundled retail rates 
 
12 ANOPR at P 15. 
13 ECA Comments at 13-14, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Nov. 21, 2025). 
14 See Comments of Duke Energy at 7, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Nov. 21, 2025). 

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
 
may have had success in interconnecting new large loads does not lead to the conclusion that all 
bundled transmission providers are similarly situated. Limiting the reach of these reforms to only 
unbundled transmission providers (i.e., RTOs/ISOs) would risk failing to provide a full remedy to 
the risks to unjust and unreasonable rates that is driving the need for action in this proceeding. 
Utilizing the guidelines-based approach suggested by ECA would better allow the Commission to 
ensure that it is implementing a complete remedy while avoiding disruption to processes that are 
working well.  
With respect to the application of the seven-factor test to identify Commission-
jurisdictional transmission facilities subject to any requirements adopted in this rulemaking, at 
least one commenter proposed instead using a high voltage threshold of 230 kV as a rebuttable 
presumption.15 While ECA appreciates the concern that applying the seven factor test will result 
in additional litigation and delays, we are concerned that a voltage threshold (especially one as 
high as 230 kV) will be an incomplete remedy to the risks to just and reasonable rates driving the 
need for Commission action and leave regulatory gaps. In many regions, much of the FERC-
jurisdictional transmission system is below 230 kV, with a significant amount below even 100 kV. 
Moreover, such a threshold could have unintended consequences (such as encouraging 
transmission providers to build lower voltage facilities to avoid the Commission’s requirements) 
that must be considered. ECA believes continued reliance on the long-standing seven-factor test is 
appropriate, legally sound, and will not materially increase litigation challenges. If the 
Commission considers alternative thresholds for determining the scope of its rule (including 
alternative proposals for defining the large loads subject to new large load interconnection 
procedures and agreements), it should take care to ensure that it does not unduly narrow the scope 
 
15 NRG Comments at 9-10, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Nov. 21, 2025). 

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 
 
of its reforms in a manner that provides an incomplete remedy or leave regulatory gaps and 
uncertainties for the emerging large loads like data centers and expanded manufacturing and 
industry driving the need for action here.    
Finally, some commenters suggest limiting the options for supporting or funding the 
network upgrades needed to interconnect new large load customers to the transmission grid.16 
Given the acute risks to unjust and unreasonable rates and the provision of non-discriminatory 
transmission service underlying this proceeding and the national security and economic growth 
imperatives of facilitating faster interconnection of new large loads, the Commission should, as a 
general matter, avoid taking options off the table for large customers to fund with private capital 
rather than ratepayer funds the new transmission and generation infrastructure needed to serve 
them. For example, mandating that all transmission upgrades be funded by transmission providers 
in rate base with a return on investment, or that customers securitize network upgrades that 
transmission providers are funding through rate base, would lead to increased costs and less 
options to support speed to power without any demonstrable benefit to other customers.17 ECA 
urges the Commission to use this proceeding to encourage new approaches to making system 
capacity available to interconnect emerging large loads in ways that maximize private investment 
and protect customers from cost shifting and stranded costs, rather than entrenching existing 
models that risk increased consumer costs and delays. Several comments have proposed new 
innovative approaches to transmission funding that ECA hopes the Commission will further 
explore as it moves forward.18  
 
 
 
16 See, e.g., Edison Electric Institute Comments, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Nov. 21, 2025). 
17 Id. 
18 NRG Comments at 15-26, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Nov. 21, 2025). 

--- PAGE 9 ---
9 
 
III. 
A Guidelines-Based Approach to Implementing Required Reforms is Practical, 
Implementable, and Provides a Path for the Commission to Increase Transparency, 
Encourage Competition and Innovation, and Address Unique State and Regional 
Circumstances. 
 
ECA continues to urge the Commission to utilize a guidelines-based approach to requiring 
reforms to procedures and agreements for large load interconnection to the transmission system. 
As we explained in our initial comments, under this approach the Commission would determine 
that large load interconnection to the transmission system is a key component of open access 
transmission service, and direct jurisdictional transmission providers to demonstrate that they have 
large load interconnection procedures and agreements in place that meet a set of minimum 
guidelines.19 We reiterate that this approach would provide a better platform for transmission 
providers and the Commission to work with states to address the confluence of federal and state 
jurisdiction, ensure transparency in the costs that flow to states, and avoid inadvertently reaching 
into retail rate regulation. It would also allow transmission providers to demonstrate that their 
existing large load interconnection procedures and agreements are working well, meet the needs 
of the current moment of accelerating large load growth, and do not require additional reforms.  
Further, such an approach would better allow the Commission to encourage and foster the 
speed to power innovations needed to meet the rapidly rising demands of large loads while 
ensuring ratepayer protection and affordability. Several commenters propose unique approaches 
to infrastructure development, non-discriminatory allocation of system capacity, and access to 
power that ECA believes have merit and should be further explored. In particular, ECA strongly 
supports comments emphasizing the value to all customers of greater aggregation and use of 
 
19 ECA Comments at 14-16, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Nov. 21, 2025). 

--- PAGE 10 ---
10 
 
behind-the-meter generation resources.20 Many large load customers are adopting on-site 
generation resources today as a bridge solution while pursuing full grid interconnection; those 
resources will be available in the future to support grid reliability and add supply that brings down 
costs for all customers. Fully implementing aggregation models under Order No. 2222, and 
encouraging their adoption in non-RTO regions, is critical to taking advantage of these resources 
to the benefit of system reliability and all customers. In addition, ECA supports further 
examination of the potential for open season models to allow customers to express interest in 
funding new infrastructure or flexibly utilizing off-peak capacity to meet their needs.21 These 
models hold promise for accelerating large load interconnection and grid buildout by providing a 
more direct pathway for customers to demonstrate that they value, and are willing to pay for, 
capacity and new infrastructure, avoiding time-consuming cost allocation disputes. 
A guidelines-based approach would allow these ideas, which would be difficult to 
implement in a one-size fits all way in this proceeding, to be developed by transmission providers 
working with states and customers. In addition, ECA believes a guidelines-based approach to 
moving forward on the challenges identified by the Secretary in the ANOPR is one of the only 
approaches suggested in the record here that is implementable in the near-term.  
 
 
 
20 See, e.g., ClearPath Comments at 7, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Nov. 21, 2025); Joint Comments of the Load 
Flexibility Parties, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Nov. 21, 2025); Comments of Telsa at 4, Docket No. RM26-4-000 
(Nov. 21, 2025); Comments of Rewiring America, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Nov. 21, 2025); Comments of Base 
Power Company, Inc., Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Nov. 21, 2025). 
21 See, e.g., NRG Comments at 15-26, Docket No. RM 26-4-000 (Nov. 21, 2025). 

--- PAGE 11 ---
11 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
ECA appreciates the opportunity to provide these reply comments and looks forward to 
working with the Commission to meet the urgent need for leadership on large load interconnection 
procedures and agreements while ensuring reliability and customer affordability.   
 
Respectfully Submitted,  
 
/s/ Jeffery S. Dennis  
 
Jeff Dennis   
Executive Director  
Electricity Customer Alliance   
1001 Pennsylvania Ave., NW   
Washington, DC 20004   
jeff@electricitycustomers.com  
 
 Dated: December 5, 2025 
