--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
 
1 
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate 
Transmission System 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
COMMENTS OF INVENERGY WIND DEVELOPMENT NORTH AMERICA LLC, 
INVENERGY SOLAR DEVELOPMENT NORTH AMERICA LLC, AND INVENERGY 
THERMAL DEVELOPMENT HOLDINGS LLC 
On October 23, 2025, the Secretary of Energy directed the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission (“FERC” or the “Commission”) to initiate a rulemaking and consider the Department 
of Energy’s (“DOE”) Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”), pursuant to section 
403 of the DOE Organization Act, to adopt rules to ensure the timely and orderly interconnection 
of large loads to the transmission system.1 The ANOPR articulates fourteen principles intended to 
guide the Commission’s effort to standardize the large load interconnection process. Invenergy 
Wind Development North America LLC, Invenergy Solar Development North America LLC, and 
Invenergy Thermal Development Holdings LLC (collectively, “Invenergy”) hereby submit these 
comments in support of DOE’s effort to establish new, clearly-defined rules to interconnect large 
loads while maintaining the Commission’s bedrock principles of resource-neutrality, open access, 
and competition, and respecting state jurisdiction over retail rates, contracting terms, and 
permitting.  Invenergy’s comments focus on the substance of such rules and does not take a 
position on the Commission’s jurisdiction over large load interconnection to the transmission 
system.  
 
1 Letter from Chris Wright, Secretary of Energy, Dep’t of Energy, to Chairman Rosner and Comm’rs, Federal 
Energy Regulatory Commission (Oct. 23, 2025); Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Notice Inviting 
Comments, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 27, 2025).  

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
 
 
2 
 
 
I. 
COMMENTS  
Utilities around the country are confronting an increasing quantity of large-load 
interconnection requests, largely due to accelerating demand for data centers and artificial 
intelligence (“AI”). In response, transmission owners across the country have adopted a hodge-
podge of load interconnection procedures that often impose significant regulatory and financial 
burdens that threaten to stymie data center deployment and which to date have not served as an 
effective mechanism for screening non-speculative interconnection requests, reducing ratepayer 
costs, or increasing speed to power. In fact, the existence of disparate rules in each jurisdiction 
incentivizes large load customers to forum shop for the best rules by submitting interconnection 
requests in multiple service territories, thereby inducing speculative interconnection requests and 
increasing systemwide costs.  
In an attempt to reduce such speculation, certain transmission owners have adopted unduly 
burdensome financial security and interconnection requirements that serve as an undue barrier to 
entry and reduce competition in what is otherwise a dynamic and growing industry. While financial 
security requirements should be sufficiently high to reduce speculation, they should not be 
arbitrary or untethered to a project’s anticipated costs. And yet transmission owners too often 
require developers to post billions of dollars in security up front to interconnect hybrid facilities 
without any regard to the actual cost of interconnecting and serving data center load, in some 
instances requiring hybrid projects to securitize both the load and generation interconnection 
requests. Needless to say, these financial demands, which vary in amount by jurisdiction, can pose 
an undue barrier to the interconnection of new load and generation and are unjust and unreasonable 
to the extent they are not based on a project’s anticipated costs.   

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
 
 
3 
 
 
In light of these constraints and to further our national AI priorities, Invenergy agrees with 
the ANOPR’s proposal to standardize the large load interconnection process by adopting pro forma 
procedures that apply on an equal basis to all large load interconnection customers seeking access 
to the transmission system. Such procedures should prevent unduly disparate treatment, discourage 
forum shopping and speculative interconnection requests, and reduce systemwide costs by 
encouraging competition among large load interconnection customers under a common set of 
rules. Specifically, Invenergy proposes that any standardized large load interconnection process 
adhere to the following principles:  
• Load and hybrid interconnection requests should be studied in the existing 
generator interconnection queue(s) with generator interconnection requests and not 
in a separate large load queue. Combining these processes will increase 
transparency for load and generation developers, reduce the need for costly network 
upgrades, and ensure equitable treatment of load and generation as they 
interconnect to the transmission system. Invenergy believes this approach has the 
greatest chance of fulfilling Principle Three in the ANOPR calling for studying load 
and generation together. 
• Large load interconnection rules should be resource neutral, with no preference 
given to generation technology type. Market forces and competition are the best 
mechanisms to identify what generation resources can be timely and cost-
effectively deployed to serve each type of large load. Large load customers should 
be free to select generation resources that meet their energy needs and corporate 
goals, provided they are consistent with state rules regarding who can supply large 
loads. A diverse array of generation resources will decrease systemwide costs, 
reduce supply chain constraints, improve reliability by reducing common-mode 
failure risk, and allow for quicker interconnection of load. 
• The Commission should adopt commercial readiness criteria or security deposits 
for large load interconnection requests that correspond to potentially necessary 
network upgrades, taking into account the net impact of co-located load and 
generation together. Standardized rules that are consistent with the cost-causation 
principle will reduce speculative large load interconnection requests, unleash large 
load deployment by providing certainty for data center and generation developers, 
and remove undue barriers to entry for new market entrants. Right-sizing 
commercial readiness and security deposits will also allow developers to redeploy 
capital to build new generation and load, rather than unnecessarily tie up capital 
with security requirements that do not correspond with anticipated costs. Assessing 
net impacts from co-located loads and generators will avoid charging the load an 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
 
 
4 
 
 
unduly high security deposit that raises costs to consumers and slows data center 
deployment without basis in potential network upgrade needs, which are smaller 
when co-located generation is taken into account. 
A. 
Interconnection Process 
1. 
Large Loads Should be Studied in a Combined Queue With 
Generation Interconnection Requests.  
Invenergy agrees with DOE that load and hybrid facilities should be studied together with 
generation and encourages the Commission to require the study of load, hybrid facilities, and 
generation as part of a single interconnection queue. The current practice of studying load and 
generation interconnection requests in separate queues is an inefficient use of resources, increases 
ratepayer costs, and will create unnecessary delay as large loads and generators wait for their 
separate upgrades to be built. As DOE explained in the ANOPR, studying load and generation 
separately can, and often does, result in the identification of network upgrades that would not be 
needed had the facilities been studied together. Beyond this inefficiency, the more upgrades that 
are identified, the longer it takes to interconnect data centers so that they are fully functional and 
are not subject to curtailment or not allowed to energize until otherwise unneeded network 
upgrades are built.   
Furthermore, because load interconnections, unlike generator interconnection requests, are 
studied exclusively by each transmission owner and typically only include transmission solutions 
in that particular transmission owner’s footprint, the study process often overlooks potentially less-
expensive transmission solutions that would have been identified by looking at the system more 
holistically, as it is in the generator interconnection study process. Unless large loads are allocated 
100% of the upgrade costs to interconnect, which is not uniform practice among transmission 
organizations, non-large load ratepayers ultimately bear such costs of overbuilding or inefficiently 
building the transmission system. Furthermore, studying load and generator interconnection 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
 
 
5 
 
 
requests separately stifles generation development by depriving generation developers of useful 
insight into whether and when load may materialize.  
DOE’s proposal to study load and hybrid facilities together with generation would remedy 
these issues. A common interconnection queue could match the appropriate generation to load and 
thereby facilitate faster resource adequacy solutions to accommodate rapidly growing load, while 
also reducing the risk of constructing unnecessary network upgrades. Moreover, maintaining a 
single queue for generation, load, and hybrid facilities will increase transparency and limit 
opportunities for undue discrimination.  
The Commission should also clarify that high voltage, direct current (“HVDC”) solutions 
should be treated as equivalent to co-located generation in the integrated study process, including 
any expedited study process for co-located (or hybrid)2 projects. Like generation, HVDC converter 
stations enable controllable injection of large quantities of electricity that can offset grid demand 
from large loads. HVDC converter stations also independently provide reactive power support that 
can obviate network upgrades that may otherwise be needed for large load interconnection, and 
like generation, they can also provide other ancillary services, such as voltage control, frequency 
control, black start, and ramping. Clarifying that HVDC converter stations should be eligible for 
expedited study as co-located projects with large loads would ensure a more comprehensive set of 
potential hybrid project arrangements that enable least-cost solutions for grid development, 
minimizing consumer impacts while accelerating data center deployment.  
Finally, Invenergy recognizes that it may take time to fashion holistic interconnection rules 
to jointly study load and generation. As an interim measure to expedite the interconnection of large 
 
2 Invenergy understands the DOE Proposal’s use of the term “hybrid” to mean a generator co-located with load 
seeking interconnection as one project.  

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
 
 
6 
 
 
loads and hybrid resources, the Commission could issue rules creating an expedited 
interconnection process for load that has contracted with a generator.  This will provide a prompt 
avenue for those loads that are already ready to interconnect, while giving the Commission time 
to fashion a more comprehensive interconnection process that jointly studies generation and load.   
Invenergy urges the Commission, while it undertakes these reforms, to adopt a transition 
process that does not prejudice existing large load interconnection customers that have already 
spent time and committed resources navigating existing state interconnection processes. 
2. 
The Commission Should Standardize Study Deposits, Readiness 
Requirements, and Withdrawal Penalties. 
Invenergy also agrees with DOE that load and hybrid interconnection requests should be 
subject to standardized study deposits, readiness requirements, and withdrawal penalties. Such 
requirements will help reduce speculative load interconnection requests, incentivize large loads to 
materialize and speed up the interconnection process. Requiring significant financial commitments 
and readiness requirements as part of a standard interconnection process can also have a positive 
effect on other aspects of the energy economy which depend on accurate load forecasts, such as 
the capacity market.  By encouraging large load interconnection customers to only submit viable 
requests that they intend to pursue to completion it will reduce the incentive to forum shop for the 
best rules in multiple jurisdictions, right size load forecasts and eliminate phantom load.  
In addition to adopting standardized financial security requirements, Invenergy 
recommends that the Commission require transmission providers to produce transparent, publicly 
accessible, and timely load forecast information that distinguishes between confirmed and 
speculative load. Such information would incentivize generation development by providing more 
reliable data on where new generation resources should be located in order to best serve confirmed 
load. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
 
 
7 
 
 
While Invenergy agrees with DOE’s proposal to adopt standardized interconnection rules, 
it is critical that such rules not act as an undue barrier to entry for viable load and hybrid projects. 
Large load interconnection customers are currently subject to a wide variety of security 
requirements. In some jurisdictions Invenergy has observed exorbitant security requirements for 
load paired with merchant generation that effectively force load to partner with load serving 
entities in order to secure preferable terms.3 The unjust nature of these financial demands is 
exacerbated by the fact that such security is often not based on the actual cost to construct the 
network upgrades required to accommodate the load interconnection. As a result, there is no 
incentive for transmission owners to choose the most cost effective or timely transmission solution. 
Rather than protect against the interconnection customer’s non-performance (the ostensible 
purpose of security payments), these types of arrangements stymie development and create undue 
barriers to market entry.    
Because the current patchwork of interconnection rules promotes anticompetitive behavior 
and discourages even viable load interconnection requests, Invenergy recommends the 
Commission adopt security and study deposit requirements that are consistent with Commission’s 
cost causation policy and generator interconnection rules. As with generation interconnection 
requests, study deposits for large load and hybrid facilities should be based on the size of the 
request. For hybrid interconnection requests, there should be only one study deposit that is based 
on the greater of the generation size or load size, but not both. Any commercial readiness or 
security required should be determined based on the amount of the network upgrades required to 
interconnect the load, consistent with the generator interconnection rules and the Commission’s 
 
3 For example, Tri-State recently proposed $2.7 million/MW for large load security, which FERC stated was not 
shown to be appropriately sized to mitigate the identified risks.  Tri-State Generation and Transmission Association, 
Inc., 193 FERC ¶ 61,070, at P 54 (2025).  

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
 
 
8 
 
 
cost causation policy.4 Such a standardized policy will prevent undue discrimination against 
individual market participants while ensuring that the interconnection rules for load and hybrid 
interconnection do not stifle load or generation development.   
In addition to standardized study deposits and financial readiness requirements, the 
Commission should also consider site control requirements for load and hybrid interconnections 
to incentivize viable requests. For hybrid interconnection requests, the generation component 
should conform to the current site control requirements approved in Order No. 2023, which is 90% 
generation site control at the time of application based on resource acreage.5 For the load 
component or load seeking interconnection without generation, 100% site control of the facility 
site should be required at application. As for site control for interconnection facilities, Order No. 
2023 did not establish site control requirements.6 But several regional transmission organizations 
and transmission owners have implemented such requirements.7 Invenergy recommends that any 
interconnection facility site control requirements for load or hybrid interconnection be the same as 
those required for generation interconnection as reflected in the existing tariffs. 
 
4 See, e.g., Reform of Generator Interconnection Procs. & Agreements, Order No. 845-A, 166 FERC ¶ 61,137, at P 
78 (2019) (“[I]t would be inconsistent with the cost causation principle to exempt an interconnection customer from 
interconnection facility and network upgrade costs that would not be necessary but for that interconnection 
request.”); Standardization of Generator Interconnection Agreements & Procs., Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 
61,103, at P 694 (2003) (“it is appropriate for the Interconnection Customer to pay initially the full cost of 
Interconnection Facilities and Network Upgrades that would not be needed but for the interconnection.”); see also K 
N Energy, Inc. v. FERC, 968 F.2d 1295, 1300 (D.C. Cir. 1992) (“Simply put, [the cost-causation principle] has been 
traditionally required that all approved rates reflect to some degree the costs actually caused by the customer who 
must pay them.”). 
5 Improvements to Generator Interconnection Procs. & Agreements, Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054, at P 
594, order on reh’g, 185 FERC ¶ 61,063 (2023), order on reh’g, Order No. 2023-A, 186 FERC ¶ 61,199, at P 199 
(2024) (maintaining the 90% site control requirement). 
6 Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054, at P 604; Order No. 2023-A, 186 FERC ¶ 61,199, at P 197. 
7 See, e.g., MISO Tariff, Attachment X, Generator Interconnection Procedures, §§ 7.2.1, 7.2.1.1 (outlining site 
control requirements for interconnection facilities). 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
 
 
9 
 
 
Finally, currently load serving entities often require detailed specifications for data center 
projects at the time of application including ramp rate schedules, planned total investment, number 
of jobs created, water usage, and local ordinance approvals, among other detailed information 
about planned facilities. This information is not often available to generation and data center 
developers at the outset of the interconnection process and bears no relevance to studying the 
interconnection or whether a rule is “just and reasonable” or “not unduly discriminatory” under 
the Federal Power Act. Nor do these requirements exist for the interconnection of generation or 
transmission. The Commission should not propose or permit transmission owners to propose 
technical requirements that are immaterial to a project’s interconnection and which create 
unnecessary barriers to entry or that preference load serving entities or transmission owners. The 
Commission has held that site control and commercial readiness deposits are the best proxy to 
ensure that generation facilities are ready to interconnect. It should hold that the same is true for 
load and hybrid interconnections.  
3. 
Load and Hybrid Facilities Should be Allocated 100% of the Network 
Upgrade Costs They Cause.  
Invenergy agrees with DOE’s proposal to make load and hybrid facilities responsible for 
100% of the network upgrades that they are assigned through any interconnection studies, rather 
than allocate such costs to non-large load customers or generators in the interconnection queue. 
This will ensure that costs are assigned in accordance with the Commission’s cost causation 
principle, which requires entities to bear the costs that they cause, and will further mitigate the 
likelihood of widespread withdrawals of generation from the interconnection queue. 
With regard to studying a hybrid facility for network upgrade cost allocation, as a default, 
hybrid projects should be studied as one project for purposes of assigning network upgrade costs, 
rather than studying the load and generation separately.  However, if the hybrid project chooses, it 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
 
 
10 
 
 
should be given the option to be studied as load only or generation only and each component 
allocated the network upgrades costs they individually cause.  This would allow hybrid projects to 
understand the full suite of interconnection possibilities and potential cost allocation in the event 
the load or generation terminates before the other.  
II. 
COMMUNICATIONS 
Please address all notices and communications regarding this proceeding to the following 
persons who are also designated for service in this proceeding: 
Nicole Luckey, Senior Vice President, 
Regulatory Affairs 
Invenergy LLC 
One South Wacker Drive, Suite 1800 
Chicago, IL 60606  
Tel: 312-224-1400 
NLuckey@invenergy.com 
  
Tyler O’Connor 
Kathryn Douglass  
Crowell & Moring LLP 
1001 Pennsylvania Avenue NW 
Washington, DC  20004 
Tel: 202-624-2500  
toconnor@crowell.com 
kdouglass@crowell.com 
 
III. 
CONCLUSION 
For the foregoing reasons, Invenergy respectfully requests that the Commission 
standardize the large load interconnection process by adopting pro forma procedures consistent 
with the recommendations herein. 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
 
 
11 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
  
/s/  Tyler O’Connor 
Tyler O’Connor 
Kathryn Douglass 
Crowell & Moring LLP 
1001 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW 
Washington, DC  20004 
202-624-2500 
toconnor@crowell.com 
kdouglass@crowell.com  
 
Counsel for Invenergy Wind 
Development North America LLC, 
Invenergy Solar Development North 
America LLC, and Invenergy Thermal 
Development Holdings LLC  
 
William Borders 
Chief Compliance Officer 
Invenergy LLC 
One South Wacker Drive, Suite 1500 
Chicago, IL  60606 
312-582-1460 
ferccompliance@invenergy.com 
 
 
November 21, 2025

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
 
I hereby certify that on this 21st of November, a copy of the foregoing document has been 
electronically served upon each person designated on the official service list in this proceeding. 
 
/s/ Kathy Lowrey 
Kathy Lowrey 
Crowell & Moring LLP 
1001 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW 
Washington, DC 20004 
202-624-2940 
klowrey@crowell.com
 
 
