--- PAGE 1 ---
 
1 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System 
Docket No. RM26-4 
 
Initial Comments of the PPL Companies re Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on 
the Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System 
The transmission-owning subsidiaries of PPL Corporation (“PPL”) (collectively the “PPL 
Companies”) hereby submit these initial comments in response to the Advanced Notice of Pro-
posed Rulemaking regarding the Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission 
System (the “ANOPR”) submitted by the Honorable Chris Wright, Secretary of Energy, and 
published by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC” or the “Commission”).1 The 
PPL Companies are PPL Electric Utilities Corporation (“PPL Electric”), Louisville Gas & Elec-
tric Company (“LG&E”) and Kentucky Utilities (“KU”) (collectively, “LG&E/KU”), and The 
Narragansett Electric Company d/b/a Rhode Island Energy (“RIE”).  
I. 
INTRODUCTION 
 
New large loads, specifically data centers connecting directly to the bulk electric system, 
present a series of new challenges for the electric industry. In this docket, the Department of En-
ergy (“DOE”) directs the Commission to consider a new angle on the problem. Rather than focus 
on resource adequacy challenges, transmission planning, or load forecasting, the Commission is 
instead directed to assert jurisdiction directly over the interconnection of these large loads, previ-
ously a matter left to the states by the Federal Power Act and FERC regulations. This is a 
 
1 Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Notice Inviting Comments, 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 27, 2025).  

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
2 
 
significant request. By asserting federal jurisdiction, FERC would displace not just longstanding 
state jurisdiction, but the detailed processes, practices, agreements, and precedents developed 
over decades in each state to answer the myriad and intricate questions of retail load interconnec-
tion. In some parts of the country, this assertion of jurisdiction may be necessary to accelerate the 
interconnection of these crucial loads. In others, it may instead slow them significantly. Regard-
less, if the Commission decides to proceed, it should do so deliberately and with care.  
 
Specific proposals made in the ANOPR warrant a closer look. Some of these proposals 
will lead to needed changes. For example, in FERC-regulated RTO tariffs that do not provide 
guidance for how to treat generators with so-called co-located load behind their meters, the Com-
mission has allowed a gap in regulation with potential reliability risks. The ANOPR proposes 
changes that will likely improve physical protections for the transmission system and network 
customers currently at risk. This alone would be a valuable change. The Commission should go 
further though, looking for ways to discourage netting, which frequently leads to cost subsidiza-
tion by network customers. It should also encourage an existing shift in practice to more benefi-
cial co-location arrangements where generators and load locate near each other (or even share a 
point of interconnection) without shared metering.  
 
Other proposals in the ANOPR may need more development. For example, the proposal 
to assert jurisdiction to all loads down to 20 MW risks overshooting the mark. This low threshold 
would bring in not just large data centers connecting to the high voltage bulk electric system, but 
also snare many longstanding commercial and industrial loads connected to lower voltage trans-
mission lines. A higher voltage threshold can still meet the Administration’s goals in the 
ANOPR while minimizing impact on state jurisdiction over existing loads. While the ANOPR 
attempts to avoid affecting state jurisdiction by limiting the Commission’s jurisdiction to 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
3 
 
connections to facilities meeting FERC’s seven-factor test for transmission, this may not be 
enough to avoid jurisdiction conflicts with a load threshold as low as 20 MW.  
 
Finally, some ANOPR proposals—or at least some broad interpretations of them—may 
warrant further consideration. For example, a proposal that large loads fund 100% of network 
upgrades related to their interconnection appears on the surface to shield network customers 
from paying the costs of the new loads. However, adopting such a proposal would transfer sig-
nificant costs onto the data centers, years before they would be able to recoup them through busi-
ness operations. This will significantly raise their upfront costs and slow, rather than speed, their 
interconnection. Further, this change is not necessary to protect network customers from subsi-
dizing large loads, an important and worthwhile goal. Regular utility ratemaking already pro-
vides sufficient protections. Unlike upfront charging to customers, utilities recoup costs over 
decades. As transmission facilities gradually depreciate, they are paid for by the customers actu-
ally using them—a group that changes over time. Further, new ideas like load guarantees ensure 
that data centers pay their fair share of costs (easily covering the costs of the required network 
upgrades), even if nominally charged to all network customers. This is simply a better way to 
charge for network upgrades than a blunt upfront charge. Similarly, ideas like option to build 
seem useful on paper to speed load connections, but utility experience with this idea on the gen-
eration side counsels caution before expanding it. Shifting from well-established utility construc-
tion to lowest-cost developers eager to offload sites after meeting minimal requirements often 
raises costs in the long term. And those costs flow to network customers once the utility takes 
ownership and control of the facility.  
 
Despite these challenges, the ANOPR is a bold vision for a streamlined federal process to 
speed development of data centers while maintaining affordable, reliable and secure electrical 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
4 
 
service. Data centers are of geostrategic importance to the United States. They will play an im-
portant role in both national security and economic development. The Administration should be 
applauded for continuing to push these ideas to the forefront of the agenda. The PPL Companies 
encourage the Commission to move forward with the rulemaking process, keeping the Admin-
istration’s goals firmly in mind. Where we differ with the ANOPR’s language, it is in the spirit 
of improving the final product rather than opposing a worthwhile effort. PPL thanks Secretary 
Wright and the Trump Administration for opening this process and we are eager to participate.  
II. 
BACKGROUND 
A. 
The PPL Companies 
PPL, headquartered in Allentown, Pennsylvania, is a utility holding company incorpo-
rated in 1994 in connection with the deregulation of the electricity generation markets in Penn-
sylvania. PPL was founded to serve as the parent company for PPL Electric, a regulated utility, 
and to its then affiliates.  
PPL Electric was founded in 1920 as the Pennsylvania Power & Light Company. PPL 
Electric is a Pennsylvania corporation and wholly owned indirect subsidiary of PPL. It owns and 
operates transmission and distribution facilities in 29 counties in eastern and central Pennsylva-
nia, where it serves approximately 1.4 million customers. PPL Electric was a founding member 
of PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (“PJM”). Its transmission system consists of approximately 
5,000 miles of electric transmission lines, which are integrated into the PJM transmission system. 
PPL Electric operates and maintains its transmission facilities under the direction of PJM; and 
PJM provides transmission service over PPL Electric’s transmission facilities under the PJM 
Open Access Transmission Tariff (“PJM OATT”).  
PPL Electric is home to one of the most promising areas for data center development in 
the United States. In addition to the naturally occurring land and water resources in central and 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
5 
 
eastern Pennsylvania, key fiber optic corridors in the greater Susquehanna Valley make PPL 
Electric’s territory the perfect location for data centers serving major population centers in the 
Northeast United States. PPL Electric’s transmission system is also ready for large load intercon-
nections. PPL Electric has invested billions of dollars in its transmission grid over the last 12 
years, providing top-quartile reliability for existing customers and industry-leading speed-to-
market for large loads. This is translating to rapid data center load growth. PPL has publicly re-
ported over 20 GW of data center development in advanced stages (projects with signed develop-
ment agreements) in Pennsylvania. Of these, over 5 GW have signed electric service agreements 
(“ESAs”), the final stage in the process, and are under active construction. PPL Electric’s pro-
cess provides maximum protection for network customers. Its preliminary agreements ensure 
that costs are fully reimbursable by data center developers if they do not move forward with the 
projects. They also include additional customer protections like pre-payments to cover customer 
costs prior to work being performed and credit support to cover all project upgrade costs charged 
to network load. The final ESAs include minimum load demand obligations, ensuring that data 
center customers cover their peak demand on the system, paying the costs of required network 
upgrades through regular utility rates.  
LG&E and KU are public utilities and wholly owned indirect subsidiaries of PPL. LG&E 
is an electric and natural gas utility based in Louisville, Kentucky, and currently serves around 
436,000 electric customers and 335,000 natural gas customers in the City of Louisville and in 
sixteen surrounding counties. KU is an electric-only utility based in Lexington, Kentucky, serv-
ing approximately 545,000 customers in seventy-seven counties in Kentucky and 28,000 custom-
ers in five counties in Virginia (under the name Old Dominion Power Company). Together, 
LG&E and KU provide open access transmission service pursuant to the terms and conditions of 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
6 
 
the LG&E/KU Joint Pro Forma Open Access Transmission Tariff currently on file with the 
Commission. LG&E and KU are also founding members of the Southeast Energy Exchange 
Market (“SEEM”). 
While the extensive growth of large data center loads is a relatively new development in 
the industry, LG&E/KU has considerable experience in the interconnection of large loads into 
the LG&E/KU service territory and the integration of large loads into reliable system operations. 
LG&E and KU are vertically integrated and so this experience extends from the provision of 
bundled retail load service to the provision of transmission service. In fact, LG&E/KU perform 
nearly all NERC Registered Entity functions with the exception of Reliability Coordinator for 
the LG&E and KU service territories. This experience includes designing and operating the 
LG&E/KU transmission system to integrate large arc furnaces (~150 MWs) that are very dy-
namic and fluctuate load quickly and often, as well as other large manufacturing plants that are 
sensitive to system events and potentially impactful to transmission system reliability.  
RIE is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of PPL. It is a major natural gas and electric 
utility serving over 770,000 customers throughout the State of Rhode Island. RIE is a participat-
ing transmission owner in ISO New England (“ISO-NE”). Its transmission system consists of ap-
proximately 336 miles of transmission lines, which are under the operational control of ISO-NE 
and are made available under the terms of the ISO-NE Tariff. Data center development has been 
slower in New England but RIE’s system is also being studied closely for potential sites.  
B. 
The ANOPR 
 
On October 23, 2025, Secretary Wright submitted a letter on behalf of the DOE to the 
Commission directing it to initiate the attached ANOPR aimed at ensuring the timely intercon-
nection of large loads. The Secretary reported that the initiative reflected the Trump 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
7 
 
Administration’s broader effort to reduce regulatory barriers for large loads and generation pro-
jects seeking to come online. 
 
The ANOPR defined large loads as those exceeding 20 MW and instructed FERC to as-
sert jurisdiction and “to standardize interconnection procedures and agreements” governing the 
interconnection of large loads to the transmission system.2 It also included several specific pro-
posals, including: 
• 
Assigning 100% of network upgrade costs to the new loads rather than network 
customers, 
• 
Allowing option to build for large load interconnections, 
• 
Standardizing study deposits, readiness requirements, and withdrawal penalties 
under a federal tariff for load facilities, 
• 
Allowing customers to submit joint load and generation interconnection requests 
for a single point of interconnection (co-location), 
• 
Requiring installation of system protection facilities to prevent unauthorized in-
jections or withdrawals, and 
• 
Expediting interconnection studies for large loads that agree to be curtailable and 
dispatchable. 
 
FERC opened the instant rulemaking docket to solicit comments on the ANOPR.  
III. 
COMMENTS 
 
The PPL Companies applaud Secretary Wright and the DOE for their strong support of 
data center and other large loads. The ongoing discussions in the energy regulatory space about 
how to serve these new loads commonly miss their criticality to national security and economic 
development. Perhaps no other form of physical infrastructure is as important for the United 
States to develop in the 21st Century. Efforts to lower barriers to large loads interconnecting with 
 
2 ANOPR at P 12.  

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
8 
 
the transmission system are timely and welcome. The Commission should take up the call issued 
by the DOE.  
 
Fully embracing the goals of the ANOPR, the PPL Companies offer the following limited 
comments based on their experience interconnecting large loads:  
A. 
Jurisdiction  
 
At its core, the ANOPR instructs FERC to assert jurisdiction over interconnection proce-
dures and agreements for large retail loads with the explicit goal of standardizing that process 
across the country.3 Whether the Commission can go beyond its traditional limitations, where it 
has clear jurisdiction over transmission in interstate commerce and states retain jurisdiction over 
the distribution of electricity to end users, is a complex legal question that will likely be decided 
by the federal courts.  
 
At this early juncture, PPL would only add that an aggressive assertion of federal juris-
diction over all retail interconnections above a certain voltage threshold may not be necessary to 
meet the Administration’s goals. Specifically, PPL’s experience is that our states are not slowing 
data center interconnections down in any measurable way. Instead, the opposite is often true. For 
example, PPL Electric’s retail interconnection process, as regulated by the Pennsylvania Public 
Utilities Commission, has worked extremely well. PPL Electric is currently working to intercon-
nect over 20 GW of data center load under a flexible process where we utilize agreements that 
incorporate many of the same terms envisioned by the ANOPR.4 PPL Electric’s preliminary 
agreements ensure that any costs to connect data centers, including engineering and design, real 
estate acquisition and permitting, and construction, are fully reimbursable by the data center 
 
3 ANOPR at P 12.  
4 See ANOPR at P 21 (requiring “standardized study deposits, readiness requirements, and withdrawal 
penalties” for new large loads).  

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
9 
 
developer should it cancel the project. Any work subject to cost in aid of construction (“CIAC”) 
payments by the customer must be prepaid. Any costs incurred to network upgrades require 
credit support. Final agreements include load demand obligations protecting network customers 
should the data center shut down prematurely. Each of these meets or exceeds the proposed 
terms of the FERC interconnection agreement envisioned by the ANOPR. Pennsylvania’s effi-
cient oversight has not added a single day to any data center development timeline. Each site is 
proceeding as quickly as possible given broader issues such as land acquisition/permitting and 
global supply chains for necessary components. Even if a standard, federalized process makes 
sense elsewhere, it is simply not able to speed things up in Pennsylvania.  
 
Similarly, in Kentucky, the Public Service Commission (“KPSC”) has not impeded the 
interconnection of large loads in the LG&E and KU service territories. Recent orders from the 
KPSC reflect a measured approach that supports the potential development of large loads pro-
jects in the LG&E and KU service territories without sacrificing protections for retail ratepayers 
if the projected load does not manifest.5 LG&E and KU are proactively working to enhance their 
ability to address large load integration at the state level through the filing of a new rate schedule 
for extremely high load factor service. This filing is currently pending before the KPSC in Case 
Nos. 2025-00113 and 2025-00114. 
 
To the extent state-regulated interconnections are slowing or preventing data centers from 
coming online elsewhere in the country, PPL believes there is a more limited solution to address 
this issue without requiring a one-size-fits-all policy that may be difficult to develop and imple-
ment. FERC could create a federal backstop for large load interconnections that the utility, or 
 
5 For example, the KPSC issued an Order on October 28, 2025, in Case No. 2025-00045 issuing a certifi-
cate of public convenience and necessity to construct new generation related to a large load interconnec-
tion.  

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
10 
 
potentially the customer, could trigger when a state process bogs down. This model already ex-
ists elsewhere in the FPA structure: the expanded federal siting permitted by the FPA amend-
ments in the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act of 2021 (“IIJA”)6 and the subsequent FERC 
action in Order No. 1977.7 Moving to a similar process where utilities could utilize a new federal 
interconnection process if the state slows or rejects data center development would meet the Ad-
ministration’s goal of facilitating data center interconnection, without unnecessarily interfering 
in existing utility processes that are working well under state regulation.  
B. 
Customer Funding of Network Upgrades 
 
The ANOPR suggests that under federal interconnection rules, “load and hybrid facilities 
should be responsible for 100% of the network upgrades that they are assigned through intercon-
nection studies.”8 Should the Commission adopt the ANOPR and assume control over large load 
interconnection, it should interpret this language consistent with its longstanding policy that net-
work customers pay for network upgrades.9 It should likewise retain the norm in state-level retail 
connections that interconnection facilities serving a single customer should be paid for by that 
customer.10 Drawing instead on its own generator interconnection precedents for direction is 
more fraught. Cost allocation rules for new generators were developed to reflect a different 
 
6 Pub. L. 117-58, 135 Stat. 429 (2021). 
7 Applications for Permits to Site Interstate Electric Transmission Facilities, Order No. 1977, 187 FERC 
¶ 61,069, RM22-7 (May 13, 2024).  
8 ANOPR at P 25.  
9 See, e.g., Standardization of Generator Interconnection Agreements and Procedures, Order No. 2003-A, 
106 FERC ¶ 61,220, RM02-1 (Mar. 5, 2004) at P 424 (charging all transmission customers, rather than 
merely the interconnection customer, for network upgrades because they “provide a system-wide bene-
fit”).  
10 The Commission should broadly be aware that it has no set of precedent for how to adjudicate disputes 
over retail interconnection. It should generally look to long-established state law for inspiration, rather 
than the younger, and less-applicable body of generator interconnection precedent FERC has developed 
since deregulation.  

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
11 
 
paradigm. There, the deregulation of generation markets meant that new independent power pro-
ducers were joining an existing grid, paid for by network customers, and were charged their costs 
for doing so.11 
 
More specifically, the Commission should be cautious about ordering this major change 
to funding for large-load-related network upgrades for two reasons:  
 
First, moving to customer funding of network upgrades would fly in the face of the very 
Administration policy underlying the ANOPR. Charging large retail loads 100% of the network 
upgrade costs required to interconnect them to the transmission system would dramatically in-
crease the Day 1 costs of data center interconnections. This will inevitably lead to slower pro-
cess, higher costs, and fewer data centers being constructed. This is the exact opposite of the Ad-
ministration’s laudable policy to revitalize domestic manufacturing and drive American AI inno-
vation.12 
 
Second, such a change is not necessary. Utilities have cost allocation policies for new 
load connections developed over decades of experience. These balance the interests of new cus-
tomers with those of longstanding customers, each with different needs and demands on the sys-
tem. For example, in Pennsylvania, PPL Electric charges new large load customers directly, 
through a CIAC, for transmission and distribution costs to directly serve their facilities. This 
electrical infrastructure provides limited benefits to the larger system, but significant benefits for 
 
11 Even for generator interconnections, there is significant doubt about the appropriateness of charging 
network upgrades to anyone other than network customers. See Ameren Services Co. v. FERC, 880 F.3d 
571, 582 (D.C. Cir. 2018) (requiring FERC to explain why generator funding of network upgrades did not 
run afoul of capital attraction standard); Fed. Power Comm’n v. Hope Nat. Gas Co., 320 U.S. 591, 603, 
64 S. Ct. 281, 288, 88 L. Ed. 333 (1944) (“the return to the equity owner should be commensurate with 
returns on investments in other enterprises having corresponding risks. That return, moreover, should be 
sufficient to assure confidence in the financial integrity of the enterprise, so as to maintain its credit and to 
attract capital.”).  
12 See Ltr. Of Hon. Chris Wright Attaching ANOPR (Oct. 23, 2025) at 2.  

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
12 
 
new load using it to come online. It is thus appropriate to charge directly. By contrast, upgrades 
to the broader transmission network necessary to ensure continued reliability following the inter-
connection of the new load are funded by the utility and charged to all network customers 
through normal utility ratemaking. These network upgrades become part of the broader transmis-
sion network and will be utilized by all network customers for the entire lifetime of the transmis-
sion asset, likely decades. It has long been considered appropriate for the utility to fund such up-
grades, slowly depreciate the assets over time, and charge network customers for use of the line 
through normal ratemaking. Of course, these network customers themselves change over time 
and include not only “native” load already on the system, but also the large loads that “drive” the 
need for the upgrade and other loads that come online thereafter.  
 
A quick example shows how this works. When PPL Electric connected a new data center 
customer in New Kingston, PA, in early 2024, it broke a 500 kV line with a new substation and 
constructed radial lines from that new substation to the 
customer’s facility. The work on the 500 kV line and the 
new substation were charged to network customers, 
while the radial lines serving the customer were charged 
directly.13 This allowed the customer to come online 
quickly and efficiently. PPL Electric funded upgrades 
that benefitted its network customers. These costs will 
be paid gradually over decades as the line depreciates, 
rather than all at once by the data center. Future 
 
13 See Transmission Expansion Advisory Committee – PPL Supplemental Projects (Apr. 2, 2024) at 4, 
available at https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/committees-groups/commit-
tees/teac/2024/20240402/20240402-item-08---ppl-supplemental-projects.ashx.  

--- PAGE 13 ---
 
13 
 
customers will also benefit from the network upgrades, and will pay a small share of their costs. 
The facilities built specifically to interconnect the new load customer, by contrast, were paid for 
directly by that customer. They have only nominal benefits for the larger set of network 
customers interconnected elsewhere on the transmission system and it would be inappropriate to 
charge for them more broadly.  
 
Even this equitable splitting of costs is not the end of the story, however. Utilities like 
PPL Electric have developed ways to ensure “native” load benefits even more from new large 
load connections than it would in the normal course of utility ratemaking. Specifically, before 
serving them, PPL Electric requires interconnecting large load customers like data centers to en-
ter into ESAs with provisions guaranteeing they will purchase at least 80% of the aggregate load 
requested over an initial term of five years. This electric service commitment ensures that the 
new load pays aggregate transmission service charges that are at least equal to the total expenses 
incurred by PPL Electric for construction work included in the rate base. In other words, the new 
large loads pays for the costs of the network upgrades through normal utility rates, even though 
they are technically being charged to all network customers. This ensures existing customers are 
held harmless against cost increases: the contract essentially acts as insurance against the new 
load creating significant costs, then dropping off the system leaving those costs to network cus-
tomers. Unlike upfront payment by large loads, this process does not disincentivize new load 
connections and does not violate longstanding ratemaking principles.  
 
While PPL Electric believes its large load cost allocation regime is best for its system 
(and that it is in the majority among utilities), there is not unanimity in the industry as to how to 
allocate these costs. Indeed, the practice of PPL’s Kentucky utilities, LG&E and KU, differs 
from that of PPL Electric. LG&E and KU are in a traditionally regulated retail jurisdiction, in 

--- PAGE 14 ---
 
14 
 
which there is no retail choice and utilities are obligated to provide bundled retail service to end-
use customers that locate within the utility’s defined service territory. As such, arrangements for 
interconnections to the transmission system are between LG&E/KU and the applicable load serv-
ing entity, who is responsible for submitting a transmission service request. Network upgrades 
are undertaken in accordance with the LG&E/KU Joint Pro Forma Open Access Transmission 
Tariff through the processing of requests for transmission service submitted by the load serving 
entities based on their projected load growth.  
Where LG&E or KU are the load serving entity, the approach taken with respect to sub-
mitting incremental transmission service requests depends on whether a large load end use cus-
tomer or a developer is seeking electric service. For entities who have not yet entered into a retail 
service agreement with either LG&E or KU, the practice is to enter into a reimbursement agree-
ment in which LG&E or KU move forward with transmission service requests under an agree-
ment in which the proposed customer or developer is responsible for reimbursing LG&E or KU 
for the cost of any network upgrades completed in the event the load fails to appear. This struc-
ture allows for the efficient development of transmission based on customer projected needs, 
without risk to other ratepayers and in a manner that reflects the primacy of state jurisdiction. 
C. 
Option to Build 
 
The ANOPR proposes to afford the new load “the same (or equivalent) option to build as 
currently provided to generator interconnection customers.”14 This appears to refer FERC’s pol-
icy, most recently clarified under Order No. 845, that interconnecting generators can construct 
their own interconnection facilities and certain network upgrades, rather than having the 
 
14 ANOPR at P 26.  

--- PAGE 15 ---
 
15 
 
transmission provider perform the construction.15 The PPL Companies caution that expanding 
option to build to retail load customers is likely to increase costs and risks of interconnection, 
again frustrating, rather than furthering, the Administration’s goals.  
 
Utility experience with generator option to build has largely been negative. At best, utili-
ties needed new and complex processes and carefully negotiated contracts regarding site acquisi-
tion, environmental permitting, equipment standards, insurance/indemnity, and numerous other 
provisions to protect themselves and their customers from poor-quality, expensive, and in some 
cases dangerous, customer-built facilities. In bad cases, utilities have had to take substandard 
land or equipment with known issues, requiring expensive fixes with unclear avenues for cost 
recovery. Utility customers have been left to pay for the operations and maintenance costs of fa-
cilities built on the cheap, rather than to utility standards designed to ensure equipment operates 
safely and reliably for decades. These issues have grown less common and less severe as the in-
dustry has grown used to option to build and developed adequate ex ante procedures, but the im-
position of option to build should not be looked back on as a success story. Adding option to 
build to the concerns raised around customer funding of network upgrades16 makes the proposed 
process even more fraught.  
D. 
Threshold for Large Loads 
 
The ANOPR proposes that the new process for retail interconnection should apply to 
large loads of 20 MW or more.17 This relatively low threshold will ensure that FERC regulation 
reaches not just hyperscalers and other large data centers, but many longstanding industrial and 
 
15 Reform of Generator Interconnection Procedures and Agreements, Order No. 845, 163 FERC ¶ 61,043, 
RM17-8 (Apr. 19, 2018) at P 85.  
16 See Section III.B, supra.  
17 ANOPR at P 19.  

--- PAGE 16 ---
 
16 
 
commercial customers, including many connected at transmission voltages below 100 kV. If the 
Commission is seeking a lighter touch that only impacts the new class of loads connecting to the 
bulk electric system, it could consider a higher threshold such as 100 MW, or even 500 MW 
(thresholds that would still catch many data centers).  
E. 
Co-Located Loads 
 
Significant portions of the ANOPR address (and encourage) the prospect of co-locating 
new generation with large loads.18 FERC action here promises to close the gap in regulation of 
co-located load arrangements that has persisted since the first large loads were interconnected 
behind the meter of large wholesale generators several years ago.19 It has been more than a year 
since the Commission held a Technical Conference on Large Loads Co-Located at Generating 
Facilities and received testimony from numerous parties and post-technical conference com-
ments from many more.20 More recently, FERC also opened a Show Cause docket specifically 
for PJM’s consideration of co-located loads, examining whether the PJM Tariff remains just and 
reasonable for not providing sufficient guidance as to their treatment.21 These dockets remain 
open. Commission action to provide guidance on this subject would be welcome.  
 
18 See ANOPR at P 20 (“to the extent practicable, load and hybrid facilities should be studied together 
with generating facilities”); P 23 (“any hybrid interconnection shall be required to install the system pro-
tection facilities necessary to prevent unauthorized injections or withdrawals …”); P 29 (“utilities serving 
large loads … should be responsible for ancillary services based on peak demand, without consideration 
of any co-located generation”).  
19 See Large Loads Co-Located at Generating Facilities, Post-Technical Conference Comments of PPL 
Electric Utilities Corporation, Docket No. AD24-11 (Dec. 9, 2024) (“PPL Electric Post-Technical Confer-
ence Comments”) at 2 (“We encourage the Commission to act quickly to close these gaps and provide the 
direction necessary for utilities, generators, and other relevant actors to interconnect these data centers as 
quickly and efficiently as possible.”).  
20 See generally, Docket No. AD24-11.  
21 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 190 FERC ¶ 61,115, Docket No. EL25-49 (Feb. 20, 2025) (“Order to 
Show Cause”).  

--- PAGE 17 ---
 
17 
 
 
The PPL Companies will not repeat all the points they made (individually or collectively) 
in earlier dockets, but wish to reiterate that any Commission action on co-located load should 
follow two “North Star” principles:  
(1) 
Protect the safety and reliability of the bulk electric system; and 
(2) 
Prevent subsidization of new loads by network customers.22  
The PPL Companies also respond to some specific questions in the ANOPR related to co-located 
loads: 
 
First, the ANOPR expects that co-location will lead to efficient siting and reduced trans-
mission costs.23 This is often true: Co-location of load with generation can be beneficial for the 
electric system, especially when new large loads such as data centers—which would be coming 
online anyway—bring new incremental generation resources in close proximity.24 The ANOPR 
adopts two options for co-located load: those sited “near … a new generation facility” and those 
“at the same point of interconnection as a new generation facility,” the latter of which it defines 
as “hybrid facilities.”25 These two options exactly match two of the “eight potential options for 
additional large load co-location” presented by PJM in its response to the Order to Show 
Cause.26 Specifically, the ANOPR describes Option 1, where load becomes traditional network 
load but is located at the same site as generation, and Option 2, where new load is at the same 
 
22 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., et al., Answer of PPL Electric Utilities Corporation, Docket No. EL25-
49, et al. (Apr. 23, 2025) (“PPL Electric Show Cause Answer”) at 1.  
23 ANOPR at P 20.  
24 PPL Electric Post-Technical Conference Comments at 2 (“By co-locating on existing generation sites, 
large data center loads avoid the need for large transmission system upgrades that increase both the costs 
of the projects and the operational complexity of the grid.”).  
25 ANOPR at PP 12, 20.  
26 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., et al., Answer of PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Docket No. EL25-49, et 
al. (Mar. 24, 2025) (“PJM Show Cause Answer”) at 5, 9–11.  

--- PAGE 18 ---
 
18 
 
point of interconnection, but is separately metered.27 Both of these options maximize the benefits 
of co-location, while minimizing or eliminating the drawbacks. They are clearly the preferred 
options of all the potential treatments for co-located load.28 Should co-location follow this pat-
tern, the ANOPR is right to predict it will be beneficial.  
 
Second, the ANOPR suggests hybrid facilities “shall be required to install the system pro-
tection facilities necessary to prevent unauthorized injections or withdrawals that exceed the re-
spective rights.”29 Here again, the ANOPR hits the mark exactly. Ever since load was added be-
hind the meter of the Susquehanna Nuclear generator, interconnected to the PPL Electric system, 
starting in 2023, the PPL Companies have advocated for improvements to visibility, prevention 
of inadvertent swings in power, and protections for the transmission system.30 The best way to 
do this is to ensure that co-located load does not share a point of interconnection with genera-
tion—or if it does, that it has a separate utility meter and adequate system protections and opera-
tional parameters.31 Should the Commission use this docket to establish parameters for co-lo-
cated load, it should look to the records in earlier dockets for examples of operational limitations, 
minimum technical requirements, and penalties for unauthorized injections or withdrawals nec-
essary to safely and reliably interconnect co-located resources.32  
 
27 See id. 
28 See PPL Electric Show Cause Answer at 8 (noting these options “do not impact safety or reliability and 
do not create any subsidization concerns).  
29 ANOPR at P 23.  
30 See PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Motion for Leave to Answer Protest and Answer of PPL Electric 
Utilities Corporation, Docket No. ER24-2172 (Jul. 12, 2024) at 2 (defending amendments to Susquehanna 
interconnection agreement intended to increase protection for transmission system).  
31 See PPL Electric Show Cause Answer at 10–11 (pointing out that the Commission’s denial of the Sus-
quehanna interconnection agreement left the PJM Tariff without sufficient protections for behind-the-me-
ter load).  
32 See ANOPR at P 23.  

--- PAGE 19 ---
 
19 
 
 
Third, the ANOPR addresses transmission service and ancillary services at hybrid facili-
ties. Specifically, it proposes to require that “utilities serving large loads … should be responsi-
ble for transmission service based on their withdrawal rights, as that value amount reflects the 
quantity of capacity and energy that is being transmitted across the transmission system to the 
load.”33 And it likewise proposes to make “utilities serving large loads … responsible for ancil-
lary services based on peak demand, without consideration of any co-located generation.”34 The 
Commission should confirm each of these statements to mean that co-located load must pay its 
full share of the costs of the transmission system and for ancillary services, without subsidization 
by network load.  
 
Specifically, charging load for transmission service based on “withdrawal rights” should 
mean that each load be metered separately from any co-located generator and charged a normal 
utility rate, which will include transmission service (with details varying based on state law, 
RTO/ISO status, etc.). Transmission service should not be based on a netted value with the gen-
erator, as this risks undercharging for use based on the characteristics of the generator and the 
load. As the PJM Transmission Owners explained in the Show Cause docket:  
If co-located load is interconnected to the transmission system, it is 
using the transmission system and must pay for its share of whole-
sale transmission service. For wholesale transmission service in 
PJM, the allocation of these wholesale charges should continue to 
be based on the FERC-approved cost allocation methodologies em-
ployed today. Specifically, if a customer has the option, capability, 
or is requesting such capability to serve their full load from the 
PJM Transmission System, then the full load amount should be in-
cluded in the LSE’s total load used to determine its share of total 
system costs, even if they choose not to use that full suite of ser-
vices at times. No free ridership should be enabled for grid-con-
nected customers. They are paying to use the transmission system 
and for the transmission system to be available to them when 
 
33 Id. at P 28.  
34 Id. at P 29.  

--- PAGE 20 ---
 
20 
 
needed. The fact that their load may not be constant does not re-
duce the possible need for investment in the transmission system or 
operation and maintenance costs that transmission owners incur to 
ensure that the system is available to them and that they receive re-
liable service.35 
Likewise, as the ANOPR suggests, ancillary services should be charged to the load based on its 
peak demand, without netting with the co-located generation.36 Taken together, these treatments 
of co-located load allow optimal interconnection near generators with minimal subsidization by 
network customers.  
 
35 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., et al., Answer of the Indicated PJM Transmission Owners to the Order 
Instituting the Proceeding Under Section 206 of the Federal Power Act and Consolidating with Other Pro-
ceedings, Docket No. EL25-49 et al. (Mar. 24, 2025) at 16-17; see also PJM Show Cause Answer at 36 
(“simple netting may not capture the costs ‘caused’ by co-located data center arrangements”) (cleaned 
up).  
36 See PJM TO Comments at 13 (“Assignment of ancillary services to co-located load should be treated 
like any other load.”).  

--- PAGE 21 ---
 
21 
 
IV. 
CONCLUSION 
 
The PPL Companies thank Secretary Wright for raising these important issues and the 
Commission for soliciting comment. FERC should conduct a full rulemaking process, including 
issuing a more specific notice of proposed rulemaking following up on the high-level issues 
raised in the ANOPR. The PPL Companies look forward to continuing to participate in this 
docket and request that these comments be considered as part of the record.  
 
Respectfully submitted,  
 
Steven M. Nadel 
Senior Counsel 
PPL Services Corp.  
645 Hamilton Street, Suite 601 
Allentown, PA 18101 
Tel. 610.774.4775  
SMNadel@pplweb.com 
 
Counsel for the PPL Companies. 
November 21, 2025 
