--- PAGE 1 ---
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
) 
Interstate Transmission System 
) 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
COMMENTS OF THE  
SOUTHWEST POWER POOL TRANSMISSION OWNER GROUP 
The Southwest Power Pool Transmission Owner Group (SPP TO Group)1 respectfully 
submits the following comments in response to the Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking 
(ANOPR) proposed by the Secretary of the Department of Energy (DOE) on October 23, 2025.  
The SPP TO Group supports the core objectives of the ANOPR and agrees that transparent and 
efficient interconnection processes are essential to rapidly serving new loads.  However, the 
Commission should take care to ensure that any generally-applicable rulemaking proceeding does 
not interfere with or delay progress that is already being made in certain regions, such as SPP’s 
High Impact Large Load (HILL) and High Impact Large Load Generation Assessment (HILLGA) 
proposals currently pending in Docket No. ER26-247.2  SPP has negotiated and prepared reforms 
that are ready to work today, and it would be a serious error to force the region to pause this work 
to await a nationwide rule. 
Additionally, to the extent the Commission moves forward with broadly applicable rules, 
the Commission should consider adopting in its rulemaking certain key components of SPP’s large 
load approach that were critical in securing broad-based stakeholder support for the reforms.  The 
 
1 The SPP TO Group consists of American Electric Power Service Corporation, Evergy Kansas 
Central, Inc., Evergy Metro, Inc., Evergy Missouri West, Inc., Oklahoma Gas and Electric 
Company, and Xcel Energy Services Inc., on behalf of Southwestern Public Service Company. 
2 See Submission of Tariff Revisions to Add the High Impact Large Load Processes and High 
Impact Large Load Generation Assessment, Docket No. ER26-247 (Oct. 24, 2025) (SPP HILL 
Proposal). 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
2 
Commission should adopt rules which facilitate grid-supply of large loads, and allow the paired 
study and connection of new grid-connected generation facilities to serve new, large loads.  The 
Commission should also adopt a “no netting” rule for large loads, which would meter a full 
transmission charge for large loads regardless of the supply configuration.  These measures will 
ensure broad stakeholder support, in turn, helping promote speed to service for large loads.  These 
measures would also mitigate the risk of a lopsided policy where large load customers and 
generators are unduly incentivized to remove generation from the bulk electric system, which, in 
turn, could drive unintended reliability and cost-shift consequences.  The utility industry stands 
ready to work with the Commission and large loads to help accomplish this.  Moreover, entities 
like the SPP TO Group have been at the forefront of helping craft nation-leading policies, such as 
SPP’s HILL and HILLGA proposals.  We similarly stand ready to share our experience as a model 
of success that is directly aligned with the Commission and DOE’s objectives. 
DISCUSSION 
I. 
THE SPP TO GROUP SUPPORTS THE CORE PURPOSE AND FUNDAMENTAL 
ELEMENTS OF THE ANOPR, BUT THE COMMISSION SHOULD ACCEPT 
INDEPENDENT ENTITY VARIATIONS THAT ALIGN WITH THE ANOPR’S 
CORE OBJECTIVES 
A. 
The ANOPR Addresses an Urgent Need for Guidance on Co-Located Load and 
its Fundamental Principles Are Sound 
The SPP TO Group supports the objective and foundational principles of the ANOPR and 
notes that the fundamental elements of the ANOPR are already incorporated into the SPP HILL 
Proposal.  These shared foundations include, among other things:  
• Recognizing the compelling need from an economic and national security 
standpoint to implement expedited interconnection processes for new large loads 
and, in particular, for new large loads associated with AI projects; 
• Ensuring the reliability of the transmission grid as a non-negotiable guiding 
principle in any new interconnection policies designed to support new large loads 
and associated generation capacity; 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
3 
• Allowing new large loads to be studied in tandem with associated new generation 
projects, which will support speed to market and system reliability; 
• Requiring new large loads and generators to pay their share of transmission 
upgrades associated with interconnection, which will avoid the risk of inappropriate 
cost-shift to non-large load customers; 
• Imposing sufficient upfront payments and penalties on new large loads and 
generators to prevent speculative or duplicative projects from seeking expedited 
interconnection procedures, while mitigating the risk of inappropriate cost shifts or 
stranded costs; and  
• Minimizing impacts on standard generation and load interconnection processes that 
also support local and national economic development objectives. 
B. 
The Commission Should Broadly Permit Independent Entity Variations for 
Programs Designed to Expedite the Interconnection of Large Loads 
The Commission’s final rule in this proceeding should expressly state that RTOs and ISOs 
will have broad flexibility to seek variations from any pro forma tariff adopted by the Commission 
under the independent entity variation standard, as it has authorized in other cases.3  “The 
Commission grants an RTO/ISO an independent entity variation from an order allowing for such 
variations where the RTO/ISO demonstrates that the proposed variation (1) is just and reasonable, 
and not unduly discriminatory or preferential and (2) accomplishes the purposes of the order.”4   
Consistent with this past practice, any nationwide rule addressing interconnection practices 
should expressly permit regional flexibility, particularly for regions like SPP that have already 
 
3 See, e.g., Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 192 FERC ¶ 61,062, at P 162 (2025) (“[U]nder the independent 
entity variation standard, RTOs/ISOs, as independent entities, have greater flexibility to tailor their 
generator interconnection processes to meet regional needs, including resource adequacy needs, 
and we find that SPP has demonstrated that the ERAS proposal is just, reasonable and consistent 
with the purpose of Order No. 2023 to ensure that interconnection customers are able to 
interconnect to the transmission system in a reliable, efficient, transparent, and timely manner.”); 
Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 191 FERC ¶ 61,230, at P 99 (2025) (“[W]e accept SPP’s proposed Tariff 
revisions to maintain its existing study deposit framework and find that they meet the independent 
entity variation standard because the provisions are just and reasonable, not unduly discriminatory 
or preferential, and accomplish the purposes of Order Nos. 2023 and 2023-A.”).   
4 ISO New England, Inc., 164 FERC ¶ 61,222, at P 9 (2018). 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
4 
been working diligently to advance policies consistent with those of the Commission and DOE.  
Technically speaking, though, the characteristics of regions such as SPP and MISO that are largely 
composed of vertically-integrated and investor-owned utilities are materially different than other 
regions, such as PJM, that include numerous states with retail open access policies as well as 
several wires-only transmission and distribution utilities.  In addition, the transmission topography 
differs significantly between organized markets because regions like SPP and MISO are less 
densely populated and large geographic areas within those systems are often served by lower-
voltage transmission lines, which means those portions of the system can be materially affected 
by the addition of loads that would be deemed relatively small in other organized markets.  These 
technical and structural differences present unique and material reliability, cost, and speed 
considerations.  The potential for these characteristics and other differences that drive a need for 
flexibility must be recognized in any final rule.  
C. 
The ANOPR Rulemaking Proceeding Should Not Hinder Commission 
Consideration or Acceptance of Similar Large Load Interconnection Proposals 
Under FPA Section 205 
The ANOPR should not halt or delay Commission action on regional or individual utility 
proposals that provide for the expedited interconnection of large loads, including AI projects.  The 
ANOPR states that it “is not intended in any way to discourage public utilities from making filings 
to address these and similar issues under FPA section 205.”5  As previously noted, the SPP HILL 
Proposal supports the core objectives of the ANOPR and the SPP TO Group maintains that any 
broadly applicable rules can be crafted in a manner that preserves and harmonizes with the SPP 
HILL Proposal.  In all events, the Commission should not delay its review of the SPP HILL 
 
5 ANOPR at P 32. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
5 
Proposal while this rulemaking docket remains pending, and the SPP TO Group supports prompt 
approval of SPP’s HILL Proposal.   
II. 
SPP TO GROUP RESPONSES TO SPECIFIC ANOPR PROPOSALS 
A. 
It is Essential that the Commission Adopt Rules Which Facilitate Grid Supply 
for Large Loads  
The ANOPR provides that “to the extent practicable, load and hybrid facilities should be 
studied together with generating facilities” in order to “minimize the need for costly network 
upgrades.”6  As the SPP TO Group understands this proposal, it would be preferable for new large 
loads and the generation that will supply those new loads–often new or enlarged generation 
facilities–to be studied together.  The SPP TO Group agrees with the ANOPR’s observation that 
“siting a large load near or at the same point of interconnection as a new generating facility could 
reduce the network upgrades needed to interconnect only the load or only the generating facility.”7   
It is essential that any large load rulemaking facilitate the ability to serve new loads with 
grid-connected generation in a manner similar to the SPP HILL Proposal.8  Under the SPP HILL 
Proposal, the load and generator may be located at the same point of interconnection,9 but the load 
also may be located within a specified number of buses to ensure that system impacts will be 
limited to a local area.  Any large load rulemaking should facilitate the supply of large loads from 
grid-connected generation that may not be located at the same point of interconnection.  The SPP 
 
6 See id. P 20. 
7 Id.  
8 See SPP HILL Proposal at 26. (“Due to the limited nature of the interconnection [for a generator 
receiving expedited interconnection service], the POI must necessarily be in the same local area 
as the [identified large load], which requires close electrical proximity.”); id. (“To be considered 
within the same electrically local area, the POI of the Generating (sic) must be no more than two 
substations away from the [identified large load].”). 
9 Such generation and loads connected at the same point of interconnection are separately metered 
and separately connected to that point of interconnection. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
6 
HILL Proposal explicitly provides this by allowing the point of interconnection for a generator not 
connecting to a 765 kV transmission line to be two substations away from a HILL’s local delivery 
facilities, while a generator that is connecting to a 765 kV transmission line must be within one 
substation.10  The SPP HILL Proposal also permits one generator to support multiple HILLs if no 
more than five substations are utilized and no more than two existing transmission lines are needed 
between each substation.11 
B. 
Large Loads Should be Metered at a Full Transmission Load Regardless of the 
Presence of Any Co-Located or Hybrid Generation 
The ANOPR proposes that “utilities serving large loads, including those at hybrid facilities, 
should be responsible for transmission service based on their withdrawal rights, as that value 
amount reflects the quantity of capacity and energy that will be transmitted across the transmission 
system to the load.”12  This proposal should be modified to the extent this is meant to create a 
transmission billing rule based on net usage of grid connected generation versus co-located 
generation.  The Commission should avoid creating a new rule which would heavily discourage 
grid-supply arrangements and which would further strongly incentivize the removal of large 
amounts of generation from the bulk electric system.  Instead, the Commission should focus on 
facilitating the addition of grid-connected loads and generation with a full transmission charge for 
large loads regardless of the supply configuration.  This would not only help maintain grid-
connected resources, it would also prevent unreasonable cost shifts to other, non-large load 
customers.  The SPP HILL Proposal does just this and should serve as a leading model for the 
Commission in its rulemaking proceeding.  
 
10 See SPP HILL Proposal at 27. 
11 See id. 
12 ANOPR at P 28. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
7 
SPP’s HILL/HILLGA model will treat large loads and any co-located generation as distinct 
for tariff and metering purposes and will also assess transmission service on the load’s gross 
withdrawals, not net of on-site generation at the same bus.  SPP’s policy expressly requires 
separate transmission-voltage meters for the load and the generation and prohibits netting for 
billing.  This ensures that the transmission system is planned and paid for to meet the load’s full 
reliability needs.  This also avoids implicit cost shifts when the on-site generator is unavailable 
and the grid must stand ready to serve the entire facility. 
SPP’s proposed approach drew broad stakeholder support and reflects a balanced path that 
will enable the rapid connection of data centers and other large loads while protecting other 
customers from the risk of unreasonable cross-subsidies.  Charting a path with broad support from 
the regions, states, customers, and utilities will far better enable speed for large loads than a “go it 
alone” approach.  
C. 
Utilities Serving Large Loads, Including Those at Hybrid Facilities, Should Be 
Responsible for Providing Ancillary Services Based on Peak Demand Without 
Consideration of Any Co-Located Generation 
The ANOPR proposes that “utilities serving large loads, including those at hybrid facilities, 
should be responsible for ancillary services based on peak demand, without consideration of any 
co-located generation.”13  It also proposes that “any co-located generating facilities will similarly 
be fully compensated for the provision of ancillary services.”14  The SPP TO Group supports this 
proposal.  Ancillary services should be charged based on the full size of large loads, and the rates 
charged to such large loads should reflect this. 
 
13 Id. P 29. 
14 Id. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
8 
D. 
Load and Hybrid Facilities Should be Responsible for the Costs of Network 
Upgrades that They Are Assigned Through the Interconnection Studies 
The ANOPR proposes that “load and hybrid facilities should be responsible for 100% of 
the network upgrades that they are assigned through the interconnection studies” and “seek 
comment on whether such costs should be offset through a crediting mechanism and, if so, over 
how many years.”15  The SPP TO Group agrees that cost causers and beneficiaries—whether load 
or hybrid facilities—should be responsible for all the network costs they are assigned under the 
relevant study process.  The SPP TO Group also maintains that a crediting mechanism may be 
appropriate, with costs applied toward a full transmission charge associated with the large loads.  
But, given the structural and technical differences across states and regions, the term of the 
crediting mechanism should be flexible and subject to regional variations as appropriate.  The SPP 
Group supports the SPP HILL Proposal that gives customers using the expedited interconnection 
process for large loads the same opportunity to receive transmission credits for network upgrades 
as it authorized for network upgrades associated with SPP’s Definitive Interconnection System 
Impact Study process.16    
E. 
New Large Load Customers Seeking Expedited Interconnection Should Not Be 
Afforded the Same (or Equivalent) Option to Build as Currently Provided to 
Generator Interconnection Customers 
The ANOPR proposes that “to the extent the interconnection customer is not the 
transmission owner, the interconnection customer shall be afforded the same (or equivalent) option 
to build as currently provided to generator interconnection customers.”17  The SPP TO Group 
disagrees with this proposal and opposes allowing interconnection customers to build network 
 
15 Id. P 25. 
16 See SPP HILL Proposal, pro forma tariff, Attach. BB, Appx. 2, 3 § 11.5.  
17 ANOPR at P 26.   

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
9 
upgrades identified in expedited large load studies except when agreed by the transmission owner 
in the affected transmission zone.  And, to the extent the ANOPR could be read to exclude existing 
transmission owners from competing to supply power to new large loads through the expedited 
process the ANOPR envisions, that would be unjust, unreasonable, and unduly discriminatory.   
The SPP TO Group has previously explained its concerns with the legal merits of such a 
proposal,18 and these concerns are exacerbated by fundamental practical concerns.  Notably, 
allowing large transmission customers who seek expedited interconnection to construct the 
transmission facilities necessary to support their interconnection request conflicts with the core 
purpose of the ANOPR: i.e., to enable the interconnection of large new loads and hybrid facilities 
as quickly as feasible to support infrastructure critical to the nation’s economy and security.  
Transmission owners know their systems and the requirements for construction of new facilities 
better than anyone else.  Thus, incumbent transmission owners are in the best position to complete 
the transmission planning process and perform construction of new Network Facilities in the most 
expeditious manner. 
Further, large load interconnection customers are not similarly situated to generator 
interconnection customers and should not be afforded the same option to build interconnection 
facilities and stand-alone network upgrades.  Large load interconnection customers are not public 
utilities and lack experience constructing or developing those facilities.  It would be unreasonable 
to place responsibility for constructing crucial energy infrastructure in the hands of entities that 
 
18 See Motion to Terminate Proceeding, Alternative Motion to Hold Proceeding in Abeyance, and 
Responses of the Southwest Power Pool Transmission Owner Group, Docket No. ER24-82, Appx. 
A at 22 (Sept. 11, 2024); Ameren Servs. Co. v. FERC, 880 F.3d 571, 582 (D.C. Cir. 2018) (“In 
sum, petitioning transmission owners raise serious statutory and constitutional concerns with 
respect to the effect of compulsory generator-funded upgrades on their business model.”). 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
10 
have no experience doing so.  Granting large load an option to build, absent strict safeguards, 
would seriously undermine the goals of the ANOPR.   
F. 
An Existing Generator that Seeks to Enter a Partial Suspension to Serve New 
Load at the Same Location Should Complete a System Support Resource 
(SSR)/Reliability Must Run (RMR) Type Study Before Diverting a Material 
Quantity of Generation Capacity to a Co-Located Load 
The ANOPR proposes that “an existing generating facility that seeks to enter a partial 
suspension to serve a new load at the same location must go through a system support resource 
(SSR)/reliability must run (RMR) type study.”19  In addition, the ANOPR proposes that “[t]he 
partial suspension can only proceed after any network upgrades needed to ensure reliability are 
placed into service” and that any necessary “network upgrades shall be the responsibility of the 
generating facility.”20  
The SPP TO Group agrees that an existing generation resource that intends to divert a 
material amount of its capacity to serve a new large load at the same location should first submit 
to a study by the transmission provider to determine whether the diversion of that generation 
capacity will undermine reliable transmission.  That approach is consistent with the current use of 
studies in all organized markets (e.g., Necessary Studies in PJM, SSR studies in MISO, and other 
RMR-type studies) to evaluate the reliability impacts caused by the loss of network generation 
capacity from other reasons, including unit retirements or exports to other networks.   
 
19 ANOPR at P 27. 
20 Id.  

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
11 
G. 
Utilities Serving Large Loads Must Meet All Applicable NERC Reliability 
Standards and OATT Provisions 
The ANOPR proposes that “utilities serving large loads must meet all applicable NERC 
reliability standards and OATT provisions.”21  The SPP TO Group supports this principle.  
Maintaining system reliability is paramount.   
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons set forth above, the SPP TO Group respectfully requests that the 
Commission carefully consider the above comments with respect to the ANOPR and that the 
Commission act expeditiously to publish a final rule that harmonizes with the processes and 
proposals SPP, the SPP TO Group, and other key stakeholders have worked hard to develop. 
 
 
21 Id. P 31. 

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
12 
 
 
 
Matthew Bly 
Senior Counsel 
American Electric Power Service Corporation 
801 Pennsylvania Ave. NW, Suite 735 
Washington, DC 20004  
(202) 383-3436 
mlbly@aep.com 
On behalf of American Electric Power Service 
Corporation 
Denise Buffington 
Senior Director Federal Regulatory Affairs  
Evergy, Inc. 
1200 Main Street 
Kansas City, MO 64105 
(816) 556-2683 
denise.buffington@evergy.com 
On behalf of the Evergy Companies 
Dominic D. Williams 
Principal Corporate Attorney 
OGE Energy Corp. 
321 N. Harvey Ave. 
Oklahoma City, OK 73101 
(405) 553-3729 
williado@oge.com 
On behalf of Oklahoma Gas and Electric Company 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
/s/ John Lee Shepherd, Jr. 
John Lee Shepherd, Jr. 
Kenneth R. Carretta 
Blake Grow 
Hunton Andrews Kurth LLP 
2200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW 
Washington, DC 20037 
(202) 419-2135 
(202) 778 2212 
(202) 955-1991 
jshepherd@hunton.com 
kcarretta@hunton.com 
bgrow@hunton.com 
 
Counsel for American Electric Power Service  
Corporation, the Evergy Companies,  
Oklahoma Gas and Electric Company, and  
Southwestern Public Service Company 
 
Timothy T. Mastrogiacomo 
Vice President, Federal Regulatory, Legal, and Policy 
Xcel Energy Services Inc. 
701 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Ste. 250 
Washington, DC 20006 
(202) 661-4481 
tim.t.mastrogiacomo@xcelenergy.com 
On behalf of Southwestern Public Service Company 
November 21, 2025 
