--- PAGE 1 ---
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE  
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate 
) 
 
Transmission System  
 
 
 
) 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
 
Comments of the North Dakota Public Service Commission 
 
The North Dakota Public Service Commission (“NDPSC”) is a state constitutional agency 
tasked with, among other things, the siting of energy infrastructure, economic regulation of 
investor-owned utilities, and governance in two Regional Transmission Organizations (“RTO’s”).  
North Dakota cooperatives and investor-owned utilities participate in the organized markets 
through the Midcontinent Independent System Operator (“MISO”) and Southwest Power Pool 
(“SPP”).  The NDPSC is intimately involved in cost allocation and transmission planning through 
its involvement in the Organization of MISO States (“OMS”) and SPP’s Regional State Committee 
(“RSC”). 
On October 27, 2025, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“Commission”) issued 
an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) in the captioned proceeding.  Having 
reviewed the ANOPR, the NDPSC respectfully submits these comments in response.  
I.  Introduction and Summary 
NDPSC appreciates the Department of Energy’s and the Commission’s attention to the 
efficient interconnection for large load customers. While NDPSC supports the general objectives 
outlined in the ANOPR, we want to emphasize the importance of ensuring that any new processes 
that may result from this proceeding do not inadvertently disturb the current balance between 
federal policy and state oversight. The NDPSC asks the Commission to fully consider the potential 

--- PAGE 2 ---
impacts to state jurisdiction, incumbent utilities, and, most importantly, all customers when 
determining whether the commission should expand its jurisdiction by redefining what has 
historically been state jurisdiction. Finally, NDPSC impresses upon the Commission that any 
policies resulting from this proceeding be specifically and narrowly tailored to solve a widespread 
systemic issue, and that any such solution be informed by solutions already implemented by the 
RTO’s. 
II.  Service and Communications 
All pleadings, correspondence, and communications related to this proceeding may be 
directed to: 
Christopher J. Martens 
Special Assistant Attorney General 
North Dakota Public Service Commission 
600 East Boulevard Avenue, Dept 408 
Bismarck, ND 58505 
(701) 328-7660 
cjmartens@nd.gov 
 
 
III.  Comments 
A. Blurring Federal-State Jurisdictional Boundaries  
Section 201(b) of the Federal Power Act grants to the Commission jurisdiction over the 
transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce, and the sale of electricity at wholesale in 
interstate commerce.1 Jurisdiction over facilities used for the generation or retail distribution of 
electricity remain matters within state jurisdiction.  In the ANOPR, the Commission expresses its 
intention not to “impinge on States’ authority over retail electricity sales by asserting jurisdiction 
 
1 16 U.S.C § 824(b). 

--- PAGE 3 ---
over the interconnection of large loads to the transmission system.” The ANOPR announces the 
intention to avoid “even arguably affecting States’ jurisdiction” by limiting the Commission’s 
jurisdiction consistent with the Commission’s seven-factor test.2 However, to reach the proposed 
solution outlined in the ANOPR, the Commission risks invoking the seven-factor test in name 
only. 
Under Order No. 888, the Commission established a seven-factor test to determine whether 
a facility should be classified as transmission or distribution. This classification and the ability to 
rely upon it are important for jurisdictional and ratemaking purposes. Yet under the ANOPR’s 
reasoning, the singular act of connecting a large retail customer directly to transmission facilities 
could transform that retail delivery into a FERC jurisdictional wholesale transaction. This one act 
feasibly redefines distribution facilities and costs as transmission assets, regardless of the seven-
factor tests analysis, and shifts oversight from state commissions to FERC, even though these large 
loads will continue to affect retail sales, distribution system planning, and local cost recovery. All 
areas historically overseen by state commissions. 
B. Unpredictable Consequences of the Jurisdictional Reclassification of Large Loads. 
While NDPSC recognizes that the ANOPR does not express an intent to reclassify large 
loads, even if it occurs from only a functional standpoint, many related processes will need to be 
reconsidered to address jurisdictional and operational changes, as well as gaps likely to result from 
an unintentionally misaligned regulatory scheme.  
Most concerning to the NDPSC is the potential for unintended negative impacts to the 
ratepayers in our state. The language of the ANOPR presents a scenario where existing customers 
 
2 ANOPR at ¶ 18; FERC Order No. 888, 61 Fed. Reg. at 21620. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
would not be able to benefit from spreading a utility’s generation and distribution fixed costs over 
additional energy sales if large loads are not subject to a utility’s retail tariff provisions. 
Additionally, it is unclear the impact this reclassification would have on transmission costs, which 
is especially concerning given the proposed 20 MW threshold.  
Again, while large load reclassification is not listed as an expressed intent, the NDPSC, 
based on the language of ANOPR, cannot see how this is not an operative result. As such, NDPSC 
seeks a deliberate approach in this rulemaking procedure with the goal to identify and mitigate 
unintended and undesirable results, and with procedural protections in place that shield our 
ratepayers while leaving state commissions the authority to advance their interests. 
C. Ensuring the need for regulatory reform. 
Major shifts in national regulatory policy, and the complex issues that accompany them, 
are seldom the most efficient solutions to regional or localized issues. The ANOPR outlines the 
need “to provide open and non-discriminatory access to the transmission system” for 
interconnection of large loads as the principal need for reform.3 The NDPSC shares the goal of 
ensuring non-discriminatory access to the transmission system. However, this purpose, which also 
serves as a justification for the expansion of the Commission’s current jurisdiction4, is listed 
without supporting facts. The ANOPR provides no evidence or examples demonstrating that 
current state or utility interconnection processes are discriminatory or inadequate. In addition to 
the points of discussion listed in the ANOPR, NDPSC submits that any proposed rule must be 
necessary to address a concrete, systemic, and nationwide problem.  
 
3 ANOPR at ¶ 12.  
4 Id. at ¶¶ 13 and 14. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
D. North Dakota supports the planning process developed by the RTOs. 
Should this process yield evidence or examples of unaddressed unduly discriminatory or 
other practices inhibiting the efficient interconnection of large loads, NDPSC urges the 
Commission to first look to proven solutions already being utilized by the RTO’s to address these 
issues.  
North Dakota is within the boundaries of two RTOs, SPP and MISO. SPP has worked to 
expedite the interconnection of large loads such as with their High Impact Large Load (HILL) 
proposal, recently filed with FERC. The HILL process provides an excellent framework for an 
interconnection process that meets the rapidly increasing demand for electricity while leaving state 
jurisdiction intact, protecting legacy customers, and promoting regulatory certainly. 
Like SPP, MISO has worked to facilitate the interconnection of large loads on its system. 
MISO established a mechanism, known as the Expedited Project Review process, to quickly study 
and approve transmission projects that are necessary to meet urgent reliability requirements, many 
of which are associated with large load additions. 
The SPP and MISO approaches to large load interconnection represent well-vetted 
processes which resulted from significant stakeholder input and buy-in. Both approaches help to 
address the challenges associated with large load customers while respecting and maintaining state 
and federal jurisdiction. The NDPSC supports the work the RTOs are doing and would advocate 
for a similar large load interconnection process, one that is limited in scope and based on 
demonstrated methodology already in place within RTO’s, to be adopted should FERC move 
forward with a rule making. 
IV.  Conclusion 

--- PAGE 6 ---
The NDPSC respectfully asks the Commission to be aware of the potential impacts this 
action might have and work to avoid impinging on states’ rights by altering definitions or past 
practices and, thus, moving the jurisdictional needle. Like our federal counterparts, we strive for 
the development of a safe, reliable, and efficient system, while safeguarding customers from 
increasing costs. We advocate for a system that is orderly constructed, non-discriminatory, and 
that allows our incumbent utilities to continue to provide retail service to customers pursuant to 
their state-mandated service obligations. 
Dated this 21th day of November 2025. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_/s/ Christopher J. Martens_ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Christopher J. Martens 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special Assistant Attorney General 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ND Public Service Commission 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
600 E Boulevard Dept. 408 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bismarck, ND 58505 
