--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
    
Interconnection of Large Loads to the  
 
)  
 
 
Interstate Transmission System 
 
 
)  
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
)      
  
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
    
          
COMMENTS OF THE NEW YORK INDEPENDENT SYSTEM OPERATOR, INC. 
 
 
Pursuant to the Notice Inviting Comments of the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission’s (“FERC” or the “Commission”) Rules of Practice and Procedure in the above-
captioned proceeding,1 the New York Independent System Operator, Inc. (“NYISO”) 
respectfully submits initial comments in this proceeding.2  The NYISO appreciates this 
opportunity to submit comments and respectfully requests that the Commission consider them in 
developing any proposed rule in this proceeding. 
I. 
BACKGROUND  
A.   
Commission Request for Comments  
On October 23, 2025, pursuant to the Secretary of Energy’s authority under Section 403 
of the Department of Energy Organization Act, the Secretary directed the Commission to 
consider an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) and initiate a rulemaking to 
reform the interconnection process for large loads on the interstate transmission system.  On 
October 27, 2025, the Commission issued a Notice Inviting Comments in the above-captioned 
proceeding.   
 
1  Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Notice Inviting Comments, 
Docket No. ER26-4-000 (Oct. 27, 2025); Notice Granting Extension, Docket No. ER26-4-000 (Nov. 7, 2025).  
2 See Secretary of Energy’s Direction that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Initiate Rulemaking 
Procedures and Proposal Regarding the Interconnection of Large Loads Pursuant to the Secretary’s Authority 
Under Section 403 of the Department of Energy Organization Act (2025) (“ANOPR”).     

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
2 
B.   
Load Interconnection Study Process in New York 
The load interconnection process in New York is currently administered by both the 
NYISO and the Transmission Owners.3  The NYISO’s load interconnection procedures apply to 
load interconnection requests for projects that are greater than 10 MW connecting to a voltage 
level at 115 kV or above, or projects 80 MW or more connecting at a voltage level below 115 
kV.4  The NYISO’s role in the process is to evaluate the reliability impacts of the proposed load 
projects on the transmission system.5  The NYISO does so by conducting a System Impact Study 
(“SIS”) on the load project, which may identify potential network upgrades or changes to the 
project required to address reliability impacts that are informational and non-binding. Based on 
these results, the developer may elect to pursue a facilities study with the Connecting 
Transmission Owner (“CTO”).  At the facilities study stage, the CTO finalizes any network 
upgrades for the project.  The cost and timing to construct the network upgrades is addressed in 
the interconnection agreement between the load developer and the CTO. 
II. 
COMMENTS 
A. 
Overview 
The rapid growth of large loads seeking to interconnect to the transmission system is 
posing challenges for New York as it is in other regions across the country.  In 2022 there were 
only six large load projects in the NYISO’s interconnection queue totaling 1,045 MW.  As of the 
date of these filed comments, the NYISO interconnection queue contains more than 40 load 
projects which could add over 10,000 MW of load to the grid. 
 
3 Capitalized terms that are not otherwise defined in this filing shall have the meaning specified in the 
NYISO Open Access Transmission Tariff (“OATT”) and NYISO Market Administration and Control Area Services 
Tariff (“Services Tariff”).   
4 NYISO Transmission Expansion and Interconnection Manual, Section 3.5 (Issued: February 2025) 
(“Interconnection Manual”). 
5 NYISO OATT Section 3.9. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
3 
The NYISO agrees that load interconnection processes should be reviewed and enhanced 
to address issues that have arisen with the influx of large load proposals.  The NYISO has 
already started to address the interconnection and market issues in its region pertaining to large 
loads.  Specifically, the NYISO recently adopted a new technical bulletin to enhance and clarify 
its existing load interconnection study process.6  The enhancements included: (1) identifying 
necessary information to submit with a load interconnection request, (2) establishing clear 
technical requirements for base cases and models, (3) providing for grouped studies, and (4) 
supplementing process details including study deposits and timelines.  The NYISO has also 
prioritized load-related project initiatives for 2026.7  Through this effort, the NYISO will 
commence a stakeholder process to develop tariff amendments to address planning and 
interconnection issues associated with new large loads as well as related market issues.  
The NYISO notes that the question of Commission jurisdiction over the interconnection 
of large loads has and will continue to be a complicating factor in large load reform as the 
Commission has been faced with jurisdictional questions stemming from revisions to large load 
interconnection procedures.8  Additional clarity on the scope of the Commission’s jurisdiction 
over the interconnection of large loads will benefit the Independent System Operators (“ISOs”) 
and Regional Transmission Organizations’ (“RTOs”) efforts to develop and implement large 
load interconnection reform. 
 
6 See NYISO Technical Bulletin No. 266, Load Interconnection Projects System Impact Study (SIS) 
Procedure (November 7, 2025); available at: Technical Bulletin No. 266. 
7 The two (2) load-related project initiatives prioritized for 2026 are (1) Flexible Load models for Large 
Loads and (2) Reliability Planning and Large Load Integration.  
8 See, e.g., Tri-State Generation and Transmission Assoc., Inc., Order Rejecting Proposed Tariff, 193 
FERC ¶ 61,070 (2025)(rejecting the filing, finding that certain aspects of Tri-State’s proposal appear to present an 
impermissible intrusion on retail rate regulation and thus are not subject to the Commission’s authority pursuant to 
section 205 of the FPA). 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
4 
B. 
Any Proposed Rule Must Afford ISO/RTOs the Flexibility to Craft Solutions 
that are Tailored to their Specific Needs 
 
The ANOPR includes a series of principles for the Commission’s consideration in 
developing standardized interconnection procedures and agreements for large loads.  While 
many of these principles address issues that are widely occurring across the county, uniform 
solutions will not account for variations among regions resulting from unique region-specific 
planning, interconnection approaches, and market structures.  Accordingly, if the Commission 
issues a notice of proposed rulemaking, the NYISO urges the Commission to provide flexibility 
in how an ISO/RTO can address the rulemaking’s requirements to account for the unique 
circumstances and challenges that exist in its regions.  If the Commission issues a notice of 
proposed rulemaking that includes pro forma language, the NYISO respectfully requests that the 
Commission continue to permit ISO/RTOs with the opportunity to seek “independent entity 
variations” to enable them to customize the proposed revisions as necessary to fit regional needs. 
The ISO/RTOs have developed different processes in response to the Commission’s 
interconnection and planning rulemakings that are customized to the unique circumstances and 
market structures in each region.  The NYISO, as a single-state ISO, must account for different 
circumstances and requirements than those in multi-state ISO/RTOs.  There is a long precedent 
for the Commission approving the NYISO’s requested independent entity variations from the 
Commission’s pro forma requirements including in Order Nos. 2003, 2006, and, most recently, 
Order No. 2023, to account for the unique circumstances in New York and the NYISO’s 
wholesale market rules and planning process. 
Any reforms to the NYISO’s load interconnection process would require significant 
coordination across the existing planning and interconnection processes, along with its related 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
5 
market rules.  A uniform approach applied across all regions on large load reform could conflict 
with these existing processes, including the NYISO’s independent entity variations that the 
Commission has previously accepted.  This could inadvertently harm other NYISO 
interconnection and planning processes, as further described below.  
1. Any Proposed Rule Should Permit ISO/RTOs to Develop and Coordinate the 
Reformed Process for Studying Load and Hybrid Facilities with their 
Existing Generator Interconnection Process. 
The ANOPR proposes in its third principle that studying load or hybrid facilities together 
with new (or existing) generation would allow for “efficient siting of loads and generating 
facilities thereby minimiz[ing] the need for costly network upgrades.”9  As an example, the 
ANOPR suggests that “siting a large load near or at the same point of interconnection as a new 
generating facility could reduce the network upgrades needed to interconnect only the load or 
only the generating facility.”10  The implementation of this principle must be carefully applied by 
each ISO/RTO so as not to disrupt the progress already made under the recently implemented 
Order No. 2023 reforms.  
The NYISO has recently begun implementing its cluster study approach developed in 
response to Order No. 2023 for generator interconnections.  Generator requests for 
interconnection proceed through the NYISO’s Cluster Study Process where they are studied as a 
group evaluating their cumulative impact on the transmission system, identifying the upgrades 
required to mitigate the collective impact of the group of projects, and then cost-allocating such 
upgrades among the projects contributing to the need for such upgrades.11  
 
9 ANOPR at P 20. 
10 ANOPR at P. 20. 
11 See N.Y. Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., Order on Compliance, 191 FERC ¶ 61,049 (2025).  

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
6 
Any change to the existing Cluster Study Process framework to include load requests 
must be carefully considered.  Clustering multiple proposed load interconnections with the 
simultaneous study of proposed generator interconnection requests is likely to present 
challenges.  The Cluster Study Process and the load interconnection process are distinct and 
separate processes for evaluating projects’ impacts on the reliability of the transmission system.  
The NYISO’s independent entity variations for its interconnection process previously accepted 
by the Commission were carefully designed to be compatible with the NYISO’s existing 
planning processes and market rules.  The NYISO also worked with stakeholders to carefully 
design this process to achieve the Commission's directives of Order No. 2023.  Affording 
flexibility to the NYISO to reform its load process will ensure that the timeliness of the generator 
interconnection process is not impacted while also furthering the goal of reliably interconnecting 
large loads to the transmission system fairly and expeditiously. 
2. Any Proposed Rule that Requires the Study of Existing Generating Facilities 
Seeking to Exit or Suspend its Participation in the Markets to Serve New Load 
Must Afford ISO/RTOs Flexibility to Establish Processes to Fully Assess the 
Reliability Impacts on their System. 
 
The ANOPR proposes in principle ten that if an existing generating facility seeks to enter 
a partial suspension to service a new load in the same location, it must go through a system 
support resource or reliability must run type study.12  The NYISO supports the requirement for 
ISO/RTOs to establish procedures to study, and ensure, that the exit or suspension of an existing 
generating facility, in whole or in part, from participation in the wholesale and ancillary markets 
to serve load does not result in reliability issues on its system.13  Any proposed rule should 
provide ISO/RTOs with sufficient flexibility to establish such procedures, similar to, or as part 
 
12 ANOPR at P 27. 
13 ANOPR at P 27. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
7 
of, a generator deactivation study, that addresses the potential reliability issues with the loss of 
existing capability on the system.14   
Additionally, any proposed rule must allow ISO/RTOs to develop a process to assess the 
reliability impact of an existing generating facility that seeks to exit or suspend participation in 
order to serve new load directly.  Such assessment should include both transmission security as 
well as resource adequacy impacts.  Of note, the NYISO is governed by reliability criteria from 
the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (“NERC”), as well as Northeast Power 
Coordinating Council (“NPCC”), and the New York State Reliability Council (“NYSRC”), both 
of which address resource adequacy.    
Over the most recent cycles of its Reliability Planning Process, the NYISO has found that 
the current fleet of generating resources connected to the New York Control Area (“NYCA”) is 
decreasing while insufficient generation with the necessary characteristics is entering service.15  
This decreasing trend in available resources when paired with the rapid growth of large loads and 
forecasted growth in demand will further diminish the resources margin in the NYCA.  The 
NYISO most recently found in its 2025-2034 Comprehensive Reliability Plan that the reliability 
margins in the NYCA continue to shrink over the next ten years due to forecasted growth in 
demand coupled with retirements of conventional generation that are outpacing renewable 
 
14 For example, in the proceeding that led to the adoption of the NYISO’s generator deactivation process, 
the Commission provided that the “NYISO . . . is not limited to filing proposed tariff provisions that meet the 
general guidance provided in this order. NYISO’s compliance filing may contain additional provisions as long as 
they are fully supported and shown to be just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory.”  New York 
Independent System Operator, Inc., Order Instituting Section 206 Proceeding and Directing Filing to Establish 
Reliability Must Run Tariff Provisions, 150 FERC ¶ 61,116, at PP 9, 12 n 23 (2015). 
15 See, e.g., New York Independent System Operator, Inc., 2025-2034 Comprehensive Reliability Plan 
(November 21, 2025), available at https://www.nyiso.com/documents/20142/54698854/Draft_2025-2034-
Comprehensive-Reliability-Plan_MC.pdf; New York Independent System Operator, Inc., 2023-2032 
Comprehensive Reliability Plan (November 28, 2023), available at 
https://www.nyiso.com/documents/20142/2248481/2023-2032-Comprehensive-Reliability-Plan.pdf (“2023-2032 
Comprehensive Reliability Plan”). 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
8 
generation additions.16  Additional major factors, such as aging generation, large load growth, 
and delays in future planned generation, have consistently been identified to significantly 
contribute to the shrinking reliability margins in the 2024 Reliability Needs Assessment17 and 
2023-2032 Comprehensive Reliability Plan .18  In the most recent Short-Term Assessment of 
Reliability, the NYISO concluded that certain localities in the state would be deficient for 
summer peak conditions without completion and energization of future planned projects.  The 
U.S. Department of Energy likewise has reported that the NYISO is not the only region that is 
experiencing similar, unsustainable trends.19   
Therefore, it is important to note that resource adequacy issues can also arise when large 
loads are added to the system, unrelated to a proposal to co-locate with an existing generator.  It 
will be critical to assess the impact of proposed large loads on resource adequacy, including 
compliance with NYSRC and NPCC requirements, and to consider the development of a process 
to address such situations. 20  Potential approaches to alleviate the resource adequacy needs 
include: a commitment from the proposed large load project to be curtailable; the co-location of 
 
16 Id. 
17 See, e.g., New York Independent System Operator, Inc., 2024 Reliability Needs Assessment at pp 6-10 
(November 19, 2024), available at https://www.nyiso.com/documents/20142/2248793/2024-RNA-
Report.pdf/0fe6fd1e-0f28-0332-3e80-28bea71a2344; 2023-2032 Comprehensive Reliability Plan; see also New 
York Independent System Operator, Inc., Short-Term Assessment of Reliability: 2025 Quarter 3 (October 13, 2025); 
available at https://www.nyiso.com/documents/20142/39103148/2025-Q3-STAR-Report-Final.pdf; New York 
Independent System Operator, Inc., Short-Term Assessment of Reliability: 2023 Quarter 3 (July 14, 2023), available 
at https://www.nyiso.com/documents/20142/39103148/2023-Q2-STAR-Report-Final.pdf. 
18 See, e.g., 2023-2032 Comprehensive Reliability Plan (identifying risk factors that could adversely affect 
system reliability over the planning horizon, such as the pace of generator retirements that is exceeding the pace of 
new generation will result in reliability violations statewide and for localities). 
19 See generally, U.S. Department of Energy, Resource Adequacy Report: Evaluating the Reliability and 
Security of the United States Electric Grid (July 2025), available at https://www.energy.gov/sites/default/ 
files/2025-07/DOE%20Final%20EO%20Report%20%28FINAL%20JULY%207%29.pdf (finding that after 
reviewing the resource adequacy of the regions across the country, the status quo of generation retirements paired 
with short falls of the planned supply of replacement generation is unsustainable). 
20 See NYSRC Reliability Rules A-1 and A-3, available at https://www.nysrc.org/wp-
content/uploads/2024/07/RRC-Manual-V47-final-7-2-24.pdf, and NPCC Regional Reliability Reference Directory 
#1, available at https://cdn.prod.website-
files.com/67229043316834b1a60feba3/6762dceb936d412b8439cb35_NPCC%20Regional%20Reliability%20Direct
ory%20No.%201_Design%20and%20Operation%20of%20the%20BPS%20-%20PV.pdf.  

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
9 
generation at the same point of interconnection as the proposed large load (“hybrid”); and 
proposal of generation located elsewhere on the transmission system.  
3.  Any Proposed Rule that Includes an Expedited Study Process for Large Loads 
that Agree to be Curtailable Should Afford ISO/RTOs Flexibility to Establish 
Processes to Fully Assess the Reliability Impacts on their System. 
 
In its seventh principle, the ANOPR proposed and requested comments on a 60-day 
expedited study process for large loads that agree to be curtailable, or hybrid facilities that agree 
to be curtailable and dispatchable.21  The NYISO encourages the Commission to afford each 
region the flexibility to propose appropriate timeframes and deadlines which reflect that 
particular region’s required studies to identify reliability issues.  It is important that such an 
expedited process is carefully coordinated with the other planning processes and allow for 
sufficient time to perform the required studies.  A pro forma rule that does not permit flexibility 
on the timing of the study process could cause delays to other NYISO study processes. 
 
III. 
COMMUNICATIONS AND CORRESPONDENCE 
 
All communications and service in this proceeding should be directed to: 
 
Robert E. Fernandez, Executive Vice President, General Counsel & Chief  
Compliance Officer 
Karen G. Gach, Deputy General Counsel 
Stephanie Amann, Senior Manager, Regulatory & Governmental Affairs 
*Brian R. Hodgdon, Senior Attorney 
*Raquel M. Parks, Attorney II 
New York Independent System Operator, Inc. 
10 Krey Boulevard 
Rensselaer, NY 12144 
Tel: (518) 356-6000 
Fax: (518) 356-4702 
rparks@nyiso.com 
 
 
 
*Designated to receive service.  
 
 
21 ANOPR at P 24. 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
10 
IV. 
SERVICE 
The NYISO will send an electronic link to this filing to the official representative of each 
of its customers, to each participant on its stakeholder committees, to the New York Public 
Service Commission, and to the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities.  In addition, a complete 
copy of the documents included with this filing will be posted on the NYISO’s website at 
www.nyiso.com.   
V. 
CONCLUSION 
 
WHEREFORE, for the foregoing reasons, the NYISO respectfully requests that the 
Commission consider these comments when considering further action with regards to the 
ANOPR. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
/s/ Raquel M Parks 
 
 
Brian R. Hodgdon 
Raquel M. Parks 
Counsel for the 
New York Independent System Operator, Inc. 
 
 
 
cc: 
Janel Burdick  
 
Emily Chen 
 
Jignasa Gadani 
 
Jette Gebhart 
 
Leanne Khammal 
 
Jaime Knepper 
 
David Morenoff 
 
Jason Rhee 
 
Douglas Roe 
 

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
 
I hereby certify that I have this day served the foregoing document upon each person 
designated on the official service list compiled by the Secretary in this proceeding in accordance 
with the requirements of Rule 2010 of the Rules of Practice and Procedure, 18 C.F.R. §385.2010. 
Dated at Rensselaer, NY this 21st day of November 2025. 
 /s/ Kerry Teti 
  
 
Kerry Teti 
New York Independent System Operator, Inc. 
10 Krey Blvd. 
Rensselaer, NY 12144 
(518) 356-6222 
 
 
