--- PAGE 1 ---
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads                        ) 
to the Interstate Transmission System             )  
Docket No. 
RM26-4-000 
 
COMMENTS OF CHEVRON U.S.A., INC. 
 
In accordance with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (Commission) October 
27, 2025, Notice Inviting Comments and its November 7, Notice of Extension of Time, Chevron 
U.S.A., Inc. (Chevron) respectfully submits its initial comments in this proceeding. Chevron 
emphatically agrees with the Secretary of Energy that the timely and orderly interconnection of 
large loads constitutes an “urgent issue that requires prompt attention.”1 Chevron encourages the 
Commission to seize this opportunity to facilitate the expedited interconnection of large loads and 
generation to support it, including co-located generation. In doing so, the Commission should take 
a practical approach that avoids disputes over jurisdictional issues or regional variations and that 
provides regulatory certainty as soon as practicable to support major near-term generation 
investment decisions.    
Chevron is one of the world’s leading integrated energy companies. We believe affordable, 
reliable and ever cleaner energy is essential to enabling human progress. Chevron is both a large 
energy user and an energy supplier, with plans to deliver scalable, reliable natural gas-fired projects 
to serve co-located data centers in the U.S. that will lead speed to market and may have the 
 
1 Secretary of Energy’s Direction that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Initiate Rulemaking 
Procedures and Proposal Regarding the Interconnection of Large Loads Pursuant to the Secretary’s Authority 
Under Section 403 of the Department of Energy Organization Act, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 27, 2025) 
(Secretary’s Directive). 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
2
potential for operational flexibility that could offer the ability to provide essential reliability 
services to the grid.  
I. 
BACKGROUND 
On October 23, 2025, the Secretary of Energy, pursuant to his authority under section 403 
of the Department of Energy Organization Act (DOE Act), directed the Commission to initiate 
rulemaking procedures and consider an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking (ANOPR) to 
standardize and accelerate “large load” interconnections to the interstate transmission system.2 The 
DOE ANOPR is an appropriate response to the extraordinary growth in U.S. electricity demand 
“due, in large part to the rapid growth of large loads.”3 It is also consistent with the President’s 
declaration that the United States is facing a national energy emergency and his prioritization of 
the development of artificial intelligence (AI), data centers, and new, reliable generation as major 
components of America’s economic and national security.4 
Chevron previously urged the Commission in the PJM co-location proceeding to act boldly 
to eliminate regulatory obstacles and to provide regulatory certainty that would facilitate the kinds 
of major investments that Chevron is considering.5 The DOE ANOPR presents a new opportunity 
to do so, and the Commission should move quickly to take advantage of it. Simply stated, Chevron 
wants to invest billions of dollars to build the power generation needed to enable America’s AI 
 
2 Ensuring the Timely and Orderly Interconnection of Large Loads, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 27, 
2025) (DOE ANOPR). The DOE ANOPR defines “large loads” as those greater than 20 MW, which is consistent 
with how the Commission defined large generation resources in Order No. 2003. Id. at 1 n.1. 
3 DOE ANOPR at P 1. 
4 See Unleashing American Energy, Exec. Order No. 14,154, 90 Fed. Reg. 8,353 (Jan. 20, 2025); Declaring 
a National Energy Emergency, Exec. Order No. 14,156, 90 Fed. Reg. 8,433 (Jan. 20, 2025); Accelerating Federal 
Permitting of Data Center Infrastructure, Exec. Order No. 14,318, 90 Fed. Reg. 35,385 (Jul. 23, 2025); see also 
America’s AI Action Plan (Jul. 2025), https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Americas-AI-
Action-Plan.pdf. 
5 Comments of Chevron U.S.A., Inc., Docket Nos. EL25-49-000 et al. (Co-Location Comments). 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
3
industry. 6 uut the private sector needs consistent policy frameworks to make large-scale 
investments at the speed required to meet today’s power needs and to ensure that the United States 
remains a technological and energy leader.  
II. 
COMMENTS 
A.  
The Commission Should Seize the Opportunity to Provide Clear Regulatory 
Guidance to Expedite Large Load Interconnections Including Related Co-
Location Arrangements 
 
The U.S. power grid is at an inflection point: load is growing at an unprecedented rate7—
driven by data centers,8 growing industrial demands, and increased electrification—as power plant 
retirements are peaking.9 The rapid growth of power demand requires cost-effective, reliable and 
scalable solutions to enable growth and avoid burdening the existing grid – and the speed and scale 
of the solutions matters in meeting this power demand growth. Chevron believes that solutions 
like natural gas-fired power can provide the reliable, lower carbon intensity power needed to fuel 
American AI innovation. 
The DOE ANOPR offers the Commission a roadmap for facilitating the expeditious 
interconnection of large loads and supporting generation to the interstate transmission system in a 
way that is wholly consistent with the President’s priorities. Ensuring the timely and orderly 
 
6 See 2025 Chevron Investor Day Release at https://chevroncorp.gcs-web.com/static-files/238611ae-689f-
4cc5-a310-c86918a2d6fc5 
7 See S&P Global Commodity Insights, U.S. Nat’l Power Demand Study, at 15 (Mar. 2025), 
https://cleanpower.org/wp-
content/uploads/gateway/2025/03/US_National_Power_Demand_Study_2025_FINAL.pdf.  
8 See Dep’t of Energy, DOE Releases New Report Evaluating Increase in Electricity Demand from Data 
Centers (Dec. 20, 2024), https://www.energy.gov/articles/doe-releases-new-report-evaluating-increase-electricity-
demand-data-centers. 
9 See U.S. Energy Info. Admin, Planned retirements of U.S. coal-fired electric-generating capacity to 
increase in 2025 (Feb. 25, 2025), https://www.eia.gov/todayinenergy/detail.php?id=64604 (“Electricity generators 
plan to retire 12.3 gigawatts of capacity in 2025, a 65% increase in retirements compared with 2024.”). 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
4
interconnection of large loads, including data centers, is vital for the Nation’s economic and 
national security; the Commission should seize this opportunity with dispatch. 
 
Specifically, the Commission should move forward with a rulemaking that generally 
accords with, and further develops, the fourteen principles set forth in the DOE ANOPR. After 
considering comments on the DOE ANOPR, the Commission should promptly issue a Notice of 
Proposed Rulemaking (NOPR) that fleshes out DOE’s initial recommendations and includes 
specific regulatory text. The Commission should set an expedited timetable for NOPR comments 
and do everything practicable to meet the Secretary’s April 30, 2026, deadline for final action. 
 
In addition, Chevron previously urged the Commission to “take creative and aggressive 
action to allow new generation resources to quickly reach commercial operations and provide 
essential reliability services to the grid in addition to energy to the data centers themselves” and 
“to encourage the development of co-location arrangements.”10 The DOE ANOPR also expresses 
support for co-location, which it refers to as “hybrid” arrangements.11 The Commission should 
ensure that the steps it takes in this proceeding prioritize the development of hybrid arrangements 
that involve major investments in new generation resources to achieve the maximum electric 
supply buildout necessary for domestic data centers as soon as practicable.  
B. 
The 
Commission 
Should 
Support 
Interim 
Regional 
Fast 
Track 
Interconnection Processes for Large Loads and Co-Located Generation to 
Support Them 
 
10 Co-Location Comments at 3. 
11 See, e.g., DOE ANOPR at P 12 (“[I]t has become necessary to standardize interconnection procedures 
and agreements for such loads, including those seeking to share a point of interconnection with new or existing 
generation facilities (hybrid facilities)”); id. at P 20 (“[T]o the extent practicable, load and hybrid facilities should be 
studied together with generating facilities.”). 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
5
 
In its Co-Location Comments, Chevron urged the Commission to create a separate, 
expedited co-located load and generation interconnection process.12 Since April, the Commission 
accepted temporary “fast-track” proposals—the Expedited Resource Addition Study (ERAS) 
processes—in both the Southwest Power Pool, Inc. (SPP) and Midcontinent Independent System 
Operator, Inc. (MISO).13 The ERAS orders recognize that urgent near-term resource adequacy and 
reliability concerns due to load growth, generation retirement, and delays in the interconnection 
process can warrant expedited interconnection procedures. ERAS provides for an accelerated 
study of certain interconnection requests to ensure near-term resource adequacy and/or reliability 
needs.14 These types of proposals could be models for new fast-track mechanisms to quickly 
interconnect large loads and related generation. New power generation projects for data centers 
should not wait years in interconnection queues to reach commercial operations.     
Fast-tracking mechanisms are consistent with the DOE ANOPR’s overarching goals as 
well as DOE’s stated openness to new proposals under section 205 of the Federal Power Act and 
to hybrid co-location arrangements. 15  SPP recently proposed a High Impact Large Load 
Generation Assessment (HILLGA) process includes a mechanism for paired large loads and 
 
12 Co-Location Comments at 5. 
13 See Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 192 FERC ¶ 61,062 (2025); Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 192 
FERC ¶ 61,064 (2025). 
14 Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 192 FERC ¶ 61,062 at P 122 (stating that SPP’s proposal would result in a total 
study period of up to 150 days and that the total interconnection process would last approximately six months); 
Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 192 FERC ¶ 61,064 at P 14 (“[U]nder the Revised ERAS Proposal, MISO 
proposes to create a quarterly ‘first-come, first-served’ serial study process to facilitate the rapid study of 
interconnection requests for generating resources that are committed to addressing specific, identified resource 
adequacy and/or reliability needs, resulting in an [Expedited Generator Interconnection Agreement] within 
approximately 90 days of study kickoff.”). 
15 DOE ANOPR at 11 (“Third, to the extent practicable, load and hybrid facilities should be studied 
together with generating facilities. Such an approach will allow for efficient siting of loads and generating facilities 
and thereby minimize the need for costly network upgrades. For example, siting a large load near or at the same 
point of interconnection as a new generating facility could reduce the network upgrades needed to interconnect only 
the load or only the generating facility.”). 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
6
generators to interconnect rapidly.16 It likewise appears that PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (PJM) 
may propose a comparable expedited interconnection proposal for paired large loads and 
generation. The Commission should be open to such regional fast-track proposals, which may 
provide mechanisms to connect large loads and generation before DOE ANOPR standards can be 
practicably established in all regions. 
C.  
The Commission Should Allow for Regional Flexibility While Still Requiring 
Speedy Action 
 
The DOE ANOPR contemplates establishing national large load interconnection standards 
similar to the generator interconnection standards established under Order Nos. 2003, 845, and 
2023.17 uut the Commission’s generation interconnection rules are not identical in all regions. 
Rather, the Commission has allowed the Independent System Operator/Regional Transmission 
Organizations (ISO/RTO) regions to adopt “independent entity variations” that better suit region-
specific circumstances where the ISO/RTO demonstrates that the proposed variation: (1) is just 
and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or preferential; and (2) accomplishes the purposes 
of the Commission’s generator interconnection requirements.18 
The Commission should take a similar approach with respect to large load 
interconnections. As the Commission has previously recognized, each ISO/RTO “has different 
operating characteristics depending on its size and location” and, therefore, should “have 
 
16 See HILL Filing Letter at 23-38. 
17 See DOE ANOPR at PP 7-11 (discussing the orders’ effect on the standardization of generator 
interconnection); id. at P 12 (recognizing “it has become necessary to standardize interconnection procedures and 
agreements for such loads, including those seeking to share a point of interconnection with new or existing 
generation facilities (hybrid facilities)”). 
18 See, e.g., PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 192 FERC ¶ 61,077 (2025) (granting various independent entity 
variations in response to PJM’s Order Nos. 2023 and 2023-A compliance filing); Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, 
Inc., 191 FERC ¶ 61,229 (2025) (same); N.Y. Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 191 FERC ¶ 61,049 (2025) (same). 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
7
flexibility to customize its interconnection procedures and agreements to fit regional needs.”19 
Allowing for appropriate flexibility should facilitate the adoption of large load interconnection 
standards by ensuring that such standards can be efficiently and expediently implemented 
according to each region’s needs. Preserving flexibility is also consistent with the DOE ANOPR’s 
statement that it “is not intended in any way to discourage public utilities from making filings to 
address these and similar issues under [Federal Power Act (FPA)] section 205.”20  
D. 
The Commission Should Seek to Minimize Jurisdictional Conflicts in Order to 
Facilitate the Timely Adoption of Large Load Interconnection Standards   
 
The FPA authorizes the Commission to regulate “the sale of electric energy at wholesale in 
interstate commerce,” including both wholesale electricity rates and any rule or practice directly 
“affecting” such rates.21 “The law places beyond the [Commission’s] power, and leaves to the 
States alone, the regulation of ‘any other sale’—most notably, any retail sale—of electricity.”22 
The DOE ANOPR appears to be intended to stay within the bounds of the Commission’s 
jurisdiction over interconnections to interstate transmission facilities.23 Chevron believes that this 
is a sound approach and recommends that the Commission focus on developing large load 
 
19 Standardization of Generator Interconnection Agreements and Procs., Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 
61,103, at P 827 (2003). 
20 DOE ANOPR at P 32; see, e.g., HILL Filing Letter at 12, 15 (stating that load interconnection studies 
could be completed within 90 calendar days under SPP’s HILL proposal); See PJM, Executive Summary: PJM Large 
Load Additions CIFP Stage 4 Package at 3-4 (Nov. 11, 2025), https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/committees-
groups/cifp-lla/2025/20251119/20251119-item-02a---pjm-lla-cifp-stage-4-package---executive-summary.pdf 
(discussing a proposal to reliably integrate large loads as PJM network load while ensuring resource adequacy). 
Chevron’s reference to SPP’s and PJM’s proposals should not be construed as endorsement of any of their specific 
detail. Chevron reserves its rights to comment on all current and future individual large load-related proposals in the  
appropriate proceedings.   
21 FERC v. Elec. Power Supply Ass’n, 577 U.S. 260, 264 (2016) (citing 16 U.S.C. §§ 824(b), 824e(a)). 
22 Id. (citing 16 U.S.C. § 824(b)). 
23 See, e.g., DOE ANOPR at P 18 (“[T]o avoid even arguably affecting the States’ jurisdiction over 
generation facilities, facilities used in local distribution or only for the transmission of electric energy in intrastate 
commerce, or transmissions consumed by the transmitter, the Commission’s jurisdiction should be limited to 
interconnections directly to transmission facilities, consistent with the Commission’s seven-factor test.”) (emphasis 
in original). 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
8
interconnection standards that do not stretch jurisdictional boundaries. As a practical matter, it 
would maximize near-term benefits to avoid jurisdictional disputes that would threaten to delay 
the implementation, and the legal durability, of the Commission’s directives in this proceeding.  
 
Chevron is mindful that state regulators have raised jurisdictional concerns about the DOE 
ANOPR.24 Chevron takes no position on the potential merits of such concerns at this time but 
reserves the right to respond in future submissions. States should take comfort from the 
Commission’s recent order in Tri-State Generation and Transmission Association, Inc., which 
rejected a proposed “High Impact Load Tariff” on the basis that it impermissibly dictated “the 
terms and conditions of a [customer’s] retail service in ways that are beyond the Commission’s 
authority.”25 And the Commission should seek to resolve legitimate state concerns while still 
taking decisive action within its purview to accelerate large load interconnections.  
 
In that vein, the Commission should seek to coordinate with states on large load 
interconnection matters, e.g., through the ongoing Federal-State Current Issues Collaborative.26 
Chevron has direct experience with the benefits of federal-state cooperation. For example, 
Chevron owns approximately 1.1 gigawatts of cogeneration in California, connected both in front 
of the meter and behind the meter, that currently provide essential services to the grid, such as 
resource adequacy, emergency energy, and ancillary services. The development of these 
cogeneration assets was facilitated, in part, by the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 
 
24 See, e.g., Nat’l Ass’n of Regul. Util. Comm’rs, Comm. On Elec., EL-1 Resolution Urging Modification of 
the Department of Energy’s Proposal for a Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Rulemaking Asserting 
Jurisdiction Over Large Load Interconnections (Nov. 10, 2025) (urging “the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission to substantially modify the Department of Energy’s proposed ANOPR to preserve states’ retail 
regulatory authority under the Federal Power Act, ensure that large load interconnections do not compromise grid 
reliability or impose undue costs on retail customers, and respect state tools for promoting system flexibility and 
equitable cost allocation”). {Adopted Nov. 12}. 
25 193 FERC ¶ 61,070, at P 49 (2025). 
26 https://www.ferc.gov/federal-state-current-issues-collaborative. 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
9
(PURPA). The PURPA jurisdictional framework leveraged state regulatory commissions for the 
implementation and enforcement of PURPA’s requirements. PURPA thereby allowed for flexibility 
in adapting federal standards to local circumstances and needs. The Commission should be open 
to similar approaches as it works on standards to facilitate the interconnection of large loads. This 
could include making use of the federal-state joint board mechanism under section 209 of the FPA.  
E. 
The Commission Should Consider Invoking its Reliability Jurisdiction Under 
Section 215 of the FPA 
In its Co-Location Comments, Chevron recommended that the Commission invoke its 
authority under section 215 of the FPA to “create a separate co-located load interconnection 
process to expeditiously study and manage the coordinated interconnection of large loads co-
located with generation facilities.”27 Although the DOE ANOPR does not reference section 215, 
the Commission should use its authority under that provision to the full extent that it deems 
necessary to address large load interconnections. The North American Electric Reliability 
Corporation has acknowledged the potentially substantial reliability impact of large loads. It 
recently submitted a report to the Commission explaining how it aims to address the impacts of, 
and integrate, large loads in reliability planning requirements.28 The breadth of the Commission’s 
jurisdiction under section 215 could be used to reinforce the legal basis of actions that the 
Commission may take in this proceeding.29 
 
27 Co-Location Comments at 4-5. 
28 See NERC Activities and Plans to Address Reliability Impacts from Large Load Integration, Docket No. 
AD25-10-000 (Apr. 17, 2025). 
29 See 16 U.S.C. § 824o(b)(1) (stating that the Commission shall have jurisdiction over “all users, owners 
and operators of the bulk-power system” in the United States, which includes otherwise non-jurisdictional entities 
such as entities in the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, federal agencies, municipals, and rural cooperatives). 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
10
III. 
CONCLUSION 
The Secretary of Energy has presented the Commission with an unprecedented opportunity 
to facilitate the speedy interconnection of large loads and supporting co-located generation. The 
Commission should act quickly, while avoiding distracting jurisdictional disputes with states and 
accommodating constructive regional proposals. Taking that approach will be most likely to 
provide regulatory certainty and to encourage large load and electric infrastructure investments 
that will maximize economic and national security benefits as rapidly as practicable. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
 
Jay Thompson 
Senior Vice President for Federal 
Government Affairs 
Chevron U.S.A., Inc. 
600 13th St NW 
Washington, DC 20005 
(202) 408-5849 
thompsonjr@chevron.com 
 
Dated: November 21, 2025 
