--- PAGE 1 ---
 
1 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate ) 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Transmission System 
) 
 
 
INITIAL COMMENTS OF THE ORGANIZATION OF PJM STATES, INC. 
On October 23, 2025, the Secretary of the Department of Energy (“Secretary”) directed the 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC” or the “Commission”) to consider an Advance 
Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) regarding the interconnection of large loads to the 
interstate transmission system and issue a final action by April 30, 2026.1 The ANOPR listed 
fourteen principles that should inform the Commission’s rulemaking.2 On October 27, 2025, the 
Commission issued a Notice Inviting Comments on the proposed ANOPR. 
The Organization of PJM States, Inc. (“OPSI”)3 appreciates the importance of efficiently 
interconnecting new loads but emphasizes the importance of maintaining visibility into the 
allocation of costs to ensure they are being assigned to cost causers. OPSI, like the National 
Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners (“NARUC”),4 underscores the importance of 
maintaining the long-established boundary between federal and state authority and urges the 
Commission to maintain the current jurisdictional framework. The Commission should carefully 
limit the scope of this rulemaking to ensure that any final action preserves jurisdictional clarity 
 
1 Secretary of Energy, Secretary of Energy’s Direction that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Initiate 
Rulemaking Procedures and Proposal Regarding the Interconnection of Large Loads Pursuant to the Secretary’s 
Authority Under Section 403 of the Department of Energy Organization Act (Oct. 23, 2025) (“ANOPR”). 
2 ANOPR at § V.  
3 OPSI’s following members support these comments: the Delaware Public Service Commission, Public Service 
Commission of the District of Columbia, Illinois Commerce Commission, Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission, 
Kentucky Public Service Commission, Maryland Public Service Commission, Michigan Public Service Commission, 
New Jersey Board of Public Utilities, North Carolina Utilities Commission, Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission, 
Tennessee Public Utility Commission, Virginia State Corporation Commission, and Public Service Commission of 
West Virginia. The Public Utilities Commission of Ohio abstained in the vote on these comments. 
4 NARUC, Resolution Urging the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to Preserve and Affirm State Retail 
Regulatory Jurisdiction in its Large Load Interconnection Proceeding, (Nov. 11, 2025) (“NARUC Resolution”). 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
2 
and respects the states’ protected oversight of retail service and the distribution of electricity to 
retail loads by local utilities. OPSI looks forward to working with the Commission to define the 
scope of this proceeding and advance collaborative solutions to ensure regulatory oversight that 
promotes the safe, timely and reliable interconnections of large loads without infringing on the 
legal authority of states to regulate sales and interconnection with retail customers. 
I. 
COMMENTS 
OPSI shares the Secretary’s focus on ensuring timely and non-discriminatory 
interconnections of large loads and appreciates the Secretary’s recognition that the Commission 
has not historically exercised jurisdiction over the interconnection of loads.5 However, the ANOPR 
states, “In light of the unprecedented current and expected growth of large loads seeking to 
interconnect to the transmission system, and to provide open access and non-discriminatory access 
to the transmission system, it has become necessary to standardize interconnection procedures and 
agreements for such loads.”6 The ANOPR frames this new exercise of jurisdiction as consistent 
with the Commission’s landmark orders promoting open access to the transmission system for 
generators and standardizing generator interconnection rules.7 However, while it is commonplace 
for wholesale service generation to connect directly to the interstate transmission grid, it is rare, if 
ever, that load does so. Rather, nearly all load connects via a retail service provider or similar entity 
over which the Federal Power Act (“FPA”) conveys no authority to the Commission. 
The most expedient way to advance reliable and timely interconnection is to honor long-
standing jurisdictional precepts recognizing state authority over retail load interconnections. 
Rather than relitigating the long-standing division of authority related to load interconnections, it 
 
5 ANOPR at p. 1. 
6 Id. at P 9. 
7 Id. at §§ II.C and II.D. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
3 
would be more efficient to search for solutions that promote consensus between the states and the 
Commission rather than rushing questionable modifications to long-standing, statutorily defined 
jurisdictional divisions.  
Indeed, NARUC has stated that to be legally durable, to ensure any final action does not 
further challenge resource adequacy and does not further delay the interconnection of large loads, 
FERC should “preserve and affirm states’ retail regulatory authority under the FPA, ensure that 
large load interconnections do not compromise grid reliability or impose undue costs on retail 
customers, and respect state tools for promoting system flexibility and equitable cost allocation.”8 
NARUC has written that “it is imperative that FERC, in any final rulemaking, make clear that it 
is… not asserting jurisdiction over end-use sales, which falls squarely within the exclusive 
jurisdiction of state retail energy regulatory authorities.”9 
OPSI agrees that it will be crucial that the Commission narrow the scope of this proceeding 
to ensure it does not assert jurisdiction over retail loads subject to the jurisdiction of any state 
regulatory authority. 
A. The Commission Should Preserve and Affirm State Retail Regulatory 
Jurisdiction 
States are already regulating the interconnection of large loads, and there is no incentive 
for load serving entities to discriminate among customers as they process new large load 
interconnection requests. To the contrary, load-serving entities and states have every incentive to 
process them in a timely manner while considering impacts on other customers. PJM’s capacity 
market construct is sending high price signals, and it is expected to continue to do so until supply 
and demand come back into balance. Therefore, the Commission should closely analyze and fully 
 
8 NARUC Resolution. 
9 Id. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
4 
articulate why current processes are no longer just and reasonable and how it will preserve the 
existing jurisdictional framework as it remedies any identified deficiencies.  
The FPA was created to fill a jurisdictional gap that existed prior to the creation of the 
Federal Power Commission, recognizing the Constitution bars states from regulating interstate 
commerce.10 As the Supreme Court wrote, “In the early 20th century, state and local agencies 
oversaw nearly all generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity”11 and associated 
wholesale and retail sales. However, with the advent of interstate sales of electricity, only Congress 
could fill that regulatory void, and Congress’s response was the FPA. The resulting statutory 
division explicitly states that the FPA “shall apply to the transmission of electric energy in 
interstate commerce and to the sale of electric energy at wholesale in interstate commerce, but... 
shall not apply to any other sale of electric energy”12, “most notably, any retail sale—of 
electricity.”13 The FPA provides that States retain jurisdiction over “facilities used for the 
generation of electric energy.”14 Further, “[a]ll rates and charges made, demanded, or received by 
any public utility for or in connection with the [jurisdictional] transmission or sale of electric 
energy . . . shall be just and reasonable.”15 Pursuant to Section 201(b), States have exclusive 
jurisdiction “over facilities used for the generation of electric energy or over facilities used in local 
distribution or for the transmission of electric energy in intrastate commerce, or over facilities for 
the transmission of electric energy consumed wholly by the transmitter.”16  
 
10 Public Util. Comm’n of R.I. v. Attleboro Steam & Elec. Co., 273 U.S. 83 (1927). 
11 FERC v. Elec. Power Supply Ass’n, 577 U.S. 260, 266 (2016) (EPSA). 
12 16 U.S.C. 824(b). 
13 577 U.S. at 265. 
14 16 U.S.C. § 824(b). 
15 Id. at § 824d(a); See also, Pacific Gas & Elec. Co. v. State Energy Res. Conservation & Dev. Comm’n, 461 U.S. 
190, 212 (1983). 
16 Id. at § 824(b). 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
5 
The jurisdictional line began as “clear and complete… [cutting] sharply and cleanly 
between sales for resale and direct sales for consumptive uses.”17 This has evolved, as relevant 
here, up to and through EPSA v. FERC in which the Supreme Court approved “a common-sense 
construction of the FPA’s language, limiting FERC’s ‘affecting’ jurisdiction to rules or practices 
that ‘directly affect the [wholesale] rate….’”18  
The matters in this docket are likely to further test the extent to which State-jurisdictional 
processes can impact wholesale rates and rules. The ANOPR states, “Any large load that seeks to 
interconnect to the transmission system does so to obtain transmission service and the appurtenant 
benefits of such.”19 The Commission should examine this statement closely, recognizing that while 
load serving entities may seek transmission service for this purpose, ultimate end use customers 
primarily seek interconnection service, through their load serving entity in order to purchase power 
at retail. Large loads ultimately interconnect to electric facilities to purchase electricity for 
consumptive purposes. They do not resell such purchased power. 
The ANOPR attempts to overcome this by asserting jurisdiction over interconnections to 
the transmission system. It provides four core justifications for Commission jurisdiction over these 
interconnections: (1) that large load interconnections are a critical component of open access 
transmission service, (2) that they directly affect Commission-jurisdictional wholesale electricity 
rates, (3) that the proposed rule does not impinge on states’ authority over retail electricity sales, 
and (4) that any contrary view conflicts with the FPA’s core purposes.20 Any federal rules that 
 
17 Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Co. v. Pub. Serv. Comm’n, 332 U.S. 507, 517 (1947), quoted in FPC v. S. Cal. Edison 
Co., 376 U.S. 205, 215 (1964). 
18 EPSA, 577 U.S. at 278 citing California Independent System Operator Corp. v. FERC, 372 F.3d 395, 403 (2004). 
19 ANOPR at P 10. 
20 Id. at § IV. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
6 
override state jurisdiction over retail loads in any way will, in fact, affect state regulation of retail 
electric service and retail ratemaking in the state.  
The ANOPR cites FERC Orders No. 888 and 2003 as foundation for its assertion of 
jurisdiction to regulate large load interconnections to the transmission system. However, it is 
important to remember that FERC issued Order No. 888 because of the incentive and ability of 
vertically integrated utilities to favor their own generating resources when providing access to the 
transmission system and that FERC issued Order No. 2003 to remedy inefficiencies in generator 
interconnection practices. Unlike generation interconnection, utilities have no incentive to 
discriminate against large loads, which represent new retail sales and investment opportunities. 
The ANOPR provides no evidence that current state- or utility-administered interconnection 
processes are discriminatory. Indeed, many states are already actively regulating the 
interconnections of large loads. The Commission should carefully explore and explain its 
understanding of historical and current discrimination among customers seeking to purchase 
electricity, as opposed to those seeking to sell electricity, which was the primary focus of Order 
Nos. 888 and 2003. Generators, unlike end-use customers, are participants in the wholesale market. 
OPSI is concerned that, by permitting end use customers to connect directly to the transmission 
grid, the Commission will seemingly expand its jurisdiction well beyond that provided by the FPA, 
i.e., into retail service. 
Today, in the PJM-region, utilities provide PJM their large load adjustments and PJM 
considers those requests as it develops its annual load forecast, which drives regional transmission 
planning and provides a direct input into PJM’s Reliability Pricing Model. If the Commission 
allows large load interconnections to proceed more quickly than new generation can come on to 
serve that load, the only response PJM’s capacity construct can provide is to continuously send 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
7 
high price signals until the needed generation materializes. However, as the Commission is well 
aware, there is a vigorous debate within PJM about the efficacy of these extremely high price 
signals in the current environment, which is slow to bring on new generation and if they are 
ultimately inactionable with respect to the incentivization of new generation resources. Further, 
PJM is pursuing a Critical Issue Fast Path Process that just concluded this week to address the 
issue of large load additions in the PJM region.21 However, even after the conclusion of this initial 
phase, PJM envisions more work may be needed to further adjust its practices to accommodate 
this large load growth without harming existing customers or system reliability.22 OPSI has 
weighed into this process, urging PJM to not rely solely on voluntary solutions to unprecedented 
large load growth.23 
The Commission has rightly been reluctant to assert jurisdiction over transmission services 
that are inextricably linked to retail sales, recognizing this would raise numerous difficult 
jurisdictional issues.24 Because of the long-standing role of states and state-jurisdictional entities 
in regulating the pace and service levels of retail loads that by necessity are interconnecting 
through a local load-serving utility, a durable solution may very well warrant joint state-federal 
 
21 See Critical Issue Fast Path - Large Load Additions, available at: https://www.pjm.com/committees-and-
groups/cifp-lla; See also PJM Board of Directors, PJM Board Letter Regarding Implementation of Critical Issue Fast 
Path Process for Large Load Additions, (Aug. 8, 2025) available at: https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/about-
pjm/who-we-are/public-disclosures/2025/20250808-pjm-board-letter-re-implementation-of-critical-issue-fast-path-
process-for-large-load-additions.pdf. 
22 PJM, Executive Summary: PJM Large Load Additions CIFP Stage 4 Package at § 4 (Nov. 11, 2025), available at: 
https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/committees-groups/cifp-lla/2025/20251119/20251119-item-02a---pjm-lla-
cifp-stage-4-package---executive-summary.pdf. 
23 OPSI Commission Staff, Commission Staff Position Statement on CIFP (Nov. 10, 2025) available at: 
https://opsi.us/wp-content/uploads/2025/11/OPSI-Staff-Position-Statement-on-CIFP.pdf. 
24 New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1, 27 (2002). See New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1, 30 (2002) (Thomas, J., dissenting) 
(observing that “[i]t is certainly possible, perhaps even likely, that the only way to remedy undue discrimination and 
ensure open access to transmission services is to regulate all utilities that operate transmission facilities, and not just 
those that use their own lines for the purpose of wholesale sales or in connection with unbundled retail transactions.’”) 
See also EPSA, 577 U.S. at 298 (Scalia, J., dissenting) (“If the purchaser is one who resells electric energy to other 
customers, the transaction is one ‘at wholesale’ and thus within FERC’s authority. If not, then not. Or so, at least, says 
the statute.”). 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
8 
regulation of this important issue as allowed by the FPA’s cooperative mechanisms, rather than a 
unilateral federal assertion of control via rulemaking. 
B. Options and Examples for Regulatory Coordination 
OPSI urges the Commission to carefully evaluate the potential areas of conflict raised by the 
ANOPR and, should the Commission choose to proceed, work collaboratively with states to 
preserve the integrity of existing jurisdictional spheres to enable safe, timely and efficient large-
load interconnections. OPSI welcomes further discussion on ways to avoid contention and promote 
the efficient identification and implementation of any needed reforms. Rather than unilaterally 
imposing federal jurisdiction on these interconnections, FERC should pursue a cooperative 
approach – potentially, developing voluntary best practices with states or other novel approaches 
to meet the moment – without undermining state authority or established statutory frameworks. 
The FPA allows for processes that foster joint federal-state decision-making. For example, 
The FPA explicitly authorizes FERC to refer matters to a board comprised of members of the 
Commission and affected states.25 The Commission may also confer with state commissions 
regarding the relationship between rate structures and regulations subject to state and commission 
jurisdiction and hold joint hearings on matters withing the Commission’s jurisdiction.26 
In other proceedings where there was a potential for state-federal jurisdictional disputes, 
FERC has utilized an opt-out to promote cooperative federalism in order to ensure as the Supreme 
Court has put it, “the States retain the last word” with regard to jurisdictionally challenging 
 
25 16 U.S.C. 824h. 
26 Id. at (b) (“The Commission may confer with any State commission regarding the relationship between rate 
structures, costs, accounts, charges, practices, classifications, and regulations of public utilities subject to the 
jurisdiction of such State commission and of the Commission; and the Commission is authorized, under such rules 
and regulations as it shall prescribe, to hold joint hearings with any State commission in connection with any matter 
with respect to which the Commission is authorized to act. The Commission is authorized in the administration of this 
chapter to avail itself of such cooperation, services, records, and facilities as may be afforded by any State 
commission.”). 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
9 
issues.27 Even where FERC’s jurisdiction over a particular matter is less subject to challenge, 
cooperation with the states is still essential, as evidenced by the Federal-State Current Issues 
Collaborative, which built upon the successful conversations held by the Federal-State Task Force 
on Electric Transmission. FERC and the states have already laid the groundwork to convene 
conversations on the topics raised in this docket, and the Commission should fully explore whether 
further joint conversations and decision-making processes are relevant here. These examples, 
among others, provide avenues for the Commission to proceed in a way that is cooperative rather 
than coercive, and OPSI stands ready to assist the Commission as it moves forward.  
C. The Proposed ANOPR’s Fourteen Principles 
The ANOPR provides fourteen principles for the Commission’s consideration.28 The core 
challenge in adopting any of these principles unilaterally is the functional reclassification of a retail 
function (consumption and local delivery) into a federal one (transmission access), thereby 
creating significant risks to resource adequacy, affordability, and the long-established 
jurisdictional balance. 
The first two principles potentially pose the greatest risk of federal overreach. First, the 
ANOPR states that to “even arguably” avoid affecting matters within state jurisdiction, the 
Commission’s jurisdiction should be limited to transmission facilities consistent with its seven-
factor test.29 Any final rule in this proceeding must exclude facilities traditionally identified as 
local distribution under the seven-factor test. But just as importantly, the Commission should 
consider the consumptive nature of large load transactions as it considers asserting jurisdiction. 
We urge the Commission to not alter the seven-factor test or make other changes that would 
 
27 EPSA, 577 U.S. at 279. 
28 ANOPR at § V. 
29 Id. at 18 (emphasis in original). 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
10 
redefine which facilities are considered transmission subject to FERC’s jurisdiction. Such an 
expansion in Federal jurisdiction would lead to confusion and likely conflict between federal 
regulation and state-approved tariffs. 
Second, the ANOPR states that the reforms in this docket should apply to new loads greater 
than 20 MW.30 This threshold is likely too small to make interconnection processes meaningfully 
more efficient and may overtake state-level proceedings where voltage thresholds have been set 
higher than this threshold. States in the PJM region are considering or have approved thresholds 
for large load additions ranging from 25 to 100 MW. 
OPSI also appreciates the ANOPR’s principles on financial readiness,31 cost 
responsibility,32 and the option to build33 as it will be critical to provide for the recovery of costs 
created by these large loads accurately. This is a retail ratemaking responsibility within the legal 
purview of states. FERC should not attempt to take such jurisdiction over retail rates through round 
about interconnection rules. It is imperative that large loads looking to interconnect bear their fair 
share of transmission costs and that the Commission deter harmful speculation as these loads seek 
to interconnect. FERC rules must not impede the state’s traditional right to perform prudency 
reviews and conduct cost causation analysis necessary to protect local ratepayers from costs they 
did not cause, especially where transmission charges are based on withdrawal rights. Further, 
granting the customer an option to build must explicitly recognize that state siting and permitting 
authority is absolute. Further, it is the experience of OPSI states that large load interconnections 
will in many, if not most, instances necessitate the construction of new grid facilities whose costs 
must be appropriately recognized and allocated, a job the states are particularly well-suited to 
 
30 Id. at P 19. 
31 Id. at P 21.  
32 Id. at P25. 
33 Id. at P 26. 

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
11 
undertake. If large load additions come with its own generation and FERC promotes the more 
efficient study of generation and load together, this could be an incentive for these loads to bring 
their own generation. 
Additionally, it will be critical that any final action in this proceeding not degrade overall 
system reliability. To that end, OPSI appreciates the ANOPR’s principles on system protection,34 
reliability-must-run studies,35 and ensuring compliance with North American Electric Reliability 
Corporation standards.36 However, just as importantly it will be necessary for the Commission to 
consider how reliability and resource adequacy will be maintained if load is added to the system 
but not balanced with new generation. The Commission should clarify who is responsible for 
meeting resource adequacy and reliability obligations in both restructured and vertically integrated 
contexts.   
Lastly, because of the important jurisdictionally-challenging issues raised in the ANOPR, 
it is likely that parties will challenge any modifications to the existing jurisdictional landscape. To 
promote the durability of any final action in this docket, FERC should proceed in the least 
disruptive manner it can.  
II. 
CONCLUSION 
OPSI urges the Commission to exercise restraint as it considers the Secretary’s directive, 
recognizing that large loads purchase electricity at retail and that it is impossible to deliver power 
to these customers without some level of distribution level infrastructure. OPSI welcomes future, 
expedited conversations with the Commission as they will be critical in successfully 
interconnecting large loads efficiently while protecting existing customers. OPSI, like NARUC, 
 
34 Id. at P 23. 
35 Id. at P 27. 
36 Id. at P 31. 

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
12 
underscores the importance of maintaining the long-established boundary between federal and 
state authority and urges the Commission to maintain the current jurisdictional framework.  
Respectfully Submitted,  
 
Gregory V. Carmean 
Executive Director  
Organization of PJM States, Inc.  
700 Barksdale Road, Suite 1 
Newark, DE 19711  
302-266-0914  
Benjamin B. Sloan 
Director of Legal and Regulatory Affairs  
Organization of PJM States, Inc.  
700 Barksdale Road, Suite 1 
Newark, DE 19711  
601-214-8481  
ben@opsi.us  
Dated: November 21, 2025 
 
 

--- PAGE 13 ---
 
13 
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
 
Pursuant to Rule 2010, 18 C.F.R. § 385.2010, I hereby certify that I have this day caused 
the foregoing document to be served upon each person designated on the official service list 
compiled by the Secretary in this proceeding.  
 
Dated at Newark, Delaware on this 21st day of November 2025. 
 
 
 
/s/ Gregory V. Carmean 
Gregory V. Carmean 
Executive Director  
Organization of PJM States, Inc.  
700 Barksdale Road, Suite 1  
Newark, DE 19711  
Tel: 302-266-0914 
