--- PAGE 1 ---
1 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
BEFORE THE  
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
) 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the  
) 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Interstate Transmission System 
 
) 
  
______________________________________________________________ 
COMMENTS OF 
THE MIDCONTINENT INDEPENDENT SYSTEM OPERATOR, INC. 
______________________________________________________________  
The Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc. (MISO) respectfully submits the 
following comments in response to the above-captioned Notice Inviting Comments issued by the 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Commission) on October 27, 2025.1  The Notice regards 
a proposed advance notice of proposed rulemaking (the “proposed ANOPR”) issued by the 
Department of Energy (DOE) for consideration and final action by the Commission.  In the 
proposed ANOPR, the DOE requests the Commission implement potential reforms to standardize 
interconnection procedures and agreements for large loads, including large loads that seek to share 
a point of interconnection with new or existing generation facilities,2 to ensure the timely and 
orderly interconnection of large loads to the transmission system.  The proposed ANOPR sets forth 
14 principles intended to ensure efficient, timely, and non-discriminatory load interconnections 
and DOE requested comments.  Given the relatively short time frame provided by the Notice for 
 
1  
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Notice Inviting Comments, October 27, 
2025.  MISO submitted a doc-less intervention in this proceeding on November 19, 2025. 
2  
The proposed ANOPR defines large loads sharing a point of interconnection with new or existing generation 
facilities as “hybrid facilities.”  

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
comments, MISO’s comments provide high-level input to help inform the Commission and 
recommend guidance in the event the Commission decides to pursue a formal rulemaking.3   
MISO appreciates: (1) the goal of the DOE’s proposed ANOPR to help facilitate large load 
interconnections and deliver “speed to power”, and (2) the Commission’s interest and work to 
support the timely and efficient interconnection of load resources onto the transmission system.4 
MISO supports the use of all available tools to meet the ongoing challenges to support the reliable 
operation of the transmission grid while also accommodating large load’s rapid growth in 
electricity demand.  To that end, and as discussed further in these comments, MISO already has 
existing processes that effectively facilitate the interconnection of large loads, and MISO also 
consistently works with stakeholders to ensure such processes continue to meet the needs of large 
loads and resource planners.  MISO’s existing processes effectively reflect unique facts and 
circumstances of MISO’s system, its states, and members.  Importantly, states and load serving 
entities are primarily vertically integrated and responsible for resource adequacy within the MISO 
footprint.  As a result, many states and utilities within MISO have processes which enable them to 
review and pare through speculative load requests to determine projects with more certainty, 
allowing MISO processes to enable speed to power for more certain large load interconnections, 
including determining the associated transmission required to facilitate the required generation 
interconnections.  Additionally, states will be key in ensuring the costs from related upgrades are 
accurately assigned to the large loads causing them, through rate design that better reflects local 
needs as opposed to cost-assignment through a MISO-driven process. 
 
3  
MISO interprets DOE’s proposed ANOPR as proposing large load interconnection procedures to be followed by 
all RTOs, ISOs, and Transmission Providers. 
4  
See e.g., Letter dated September 19, 2025, to John Bear from Chairman Rosner regarding load forecasting and 
the impacts of new large load growth, as well as John Bear’s response letter dated October 8, 2025 (Docket No. 
EL25-109), and the Commission’s October 21, 2025, Reliability Technical Conference, Panel 2.  

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
Moreover, MISO, as well as other RTOs and ISOs,5 is currently engaged in several efforts 
to efficiently effectuate the integration of these large loads—including improvements to short-term 
and long-term load forecasting; revising North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) 
standards; and improving operational visibility, monitoring, and coordination of such large loads. 
Consequently, the Commission should be mindful of regional differences that might limit the 
success of a “one size fits all” mandate.  Shifting to standardized large load interconnection 
procedures could nullify currently effective processes and/or delay significant work that has been 
undertaken and currently ongoing.   
Moreover, shifting to a one-size-fits all approach could introduce delays to interconnecting 
large loads, which would be contrary to the very progress desired by the DOE and the Commission. 
The reasons for delays include: (1) utilizing a generator interconnection process as a template that 
historically has experienced delays and is unlikely to provide the speed to power needed by large 
load customers; (2) requiring additional work and requirements that are not currently required 
under MISO’s existing processes, and which may be unnecessary; and (3) meaningful differences 
between generation and load that will prevent a seamless utilization of the generator 
interconnection process for large load interconnection purposes and will present challenges.  
Fundamentally, MISO questions whether standardized large load interconnection procedures will 
result in the “speed to power” that is necessary to allow the United States to effectively compete 
in the global competition for economic development, such as in artificial intelligence and creating 
manufacturing and industrial jobs.  Later in these comments MISO addresses its concerns 
regarding delays in greater detail. 
 
5  
MISO is actively engaged with other RTOs to compare experiences and leverage lessons learned to help develop 
best practices to efficiently integrate new large loads. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
Furthermore, MISO is concerned of the impact the proposed ANOPR could have on MISO 
members’ and states’ resource plans and efforts for economic development.  MISO’s existing 
processes include working partnerships with stakeholders – including state regulatory 
commissions, utilities, and transmission owners – to ensure that they and MISO have an accurate 
understanding of evolving electric system needs and timelines.6  Utilities in the MISO region, 
which operate under their respective state’s jurisdictional authority, are on the front lines, working 
directly with new large loads to bring them online.  The partnership between MISO, its members, 
and states, supports their plans and interests while ensuring continued reliability and preparing for 
the system of the future.  The partnership also provides a solid foundation to move forward on 
timely, cost-effective solutions that provide flexibility to help meet the challenges ahead, as well 
as drives needed generation and transmission infrastructure investments, allowing the most 
efficient use of infrastructure of all types.  The partnership has successfully resulted in significant 
large load additions.  MISO is concerned that the proposed ANOPR would negatively impact this 
partnership, potentially hinder member and state’s interest, and result in less efficient large load 
interconnections. 
In addition to delays and the need to support MISO’s members and states’ interests, MISO 
understands that large loads (e.g., data centers) have different business and service models.  Such 
business and service models may differ depending on facts and circumstances presented in 
different regions7 and even based on different facts in the same region.  For example, a large load 
that seeks to connect to the transmission system may be accompanied by co-located generation to 
 
6  
As the RTO, MISO leverages technology and ongoing process improvements, and conducts long-term planning, 
to support the states’ resource adequacy role and the obligation of load serving entities to serve their end-use 
customers. 
7  
For example, states’ economic development priorities may differ from region to region, as well as state regulatory 
jurisdictional authority over utilities (e.g., retail access).    

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
serve that load or it may depend on resources existing or to be developed elsewhere on the 
Transmission System.  The appropriate study process may look very different for each of these 
scenarios.  Also, the costs of interconnecting load to the transmission system may not be viewed 
by some large load customers as a significant component of the overall costs of bringing data 
centers online whereas for others this may prove an impediment.  Unique considerations and 
priorities such as these may not be met through a “one size fits all” mandate.  
MISO also respectfully cautions the Commission against diverting industry attention to 
developing a one-size-fits all approach that will likely lead to a less efficient process.8  In lieu of 
requiring standard large load interconnection procedures, and in light of the concerns expressed 
above, the Commission should allow MISO, as well as other industry participants, to continue 
focusing attention on efficiently interconnecting large loads pursuant to processes that reflect the 
unique circumstances of their members, states, stakeholders, and transmission systems.  
Alternatively, the Commission could refine the principles started by DOE and issue a policy 
statement to guide the industry processes to be used for large load interconnections.  This would 
enable Transmission Providers to craft unique solutions suited for their regions guided by 
Commission principles.  
To the extent the Commission believes it must pursue standard large load interconnection 
procedures or another rule mandate through a formal rulemaking process, it should extend the 
“Independent Entity Variation” principle to any final rule.  Providing this flexibility would be 
consistent with prior acknowledgements of the Commission regarding the unique status of ISOs 
and RTOs as independent, stakeholder-driven organizations that are best positioned to address 
 
8  
To the extent that individual regions of the country are facing challenges in effectively integrating large loads the 
Commission could target significant reforms for those individual regions. This will support the development of 
best practices across the nation, while ensuring progress within individual regions that are struggling to keep pace. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
specific interconnection issues that may arise in their regions.9  
I. 
MISO Comments  
A. MISO’s existing processes effectively facilitate interconnection of large loads, so 
there is no benefit at this time for standard large load interconnection procedures. 
 
Transmission and generation are critical enablers to facilitate the interconnections of large 
loads.  MISO has updated and enhanced its processes across the transmission and resource 
planning horizons to efficiently support large load additions and improve the integration of large 
loads.  The efficient integration of new large loads depends on MISO being allowed to continue 
using its existing processes, as well as working with stakeholder on potential prospective 
enhancements.  Below MISO provides a summary of its existing processes. 
i. 
MISO has enhanced its generator interconnection processes to help bring new 
generation online more quickly.  
 
One of the challenges of large load additions is that typically large loads desire to be served 
quickly, so any delays in generation interconnection analysis or the construction of necessary 
transmission upgrades can create challenges. Therefore, MISO has undertaken several 
enhancements to its generator interconnection process to allow generation to come online more 
quickly and better align with the time frames for large load additions.  Those efforts include: 
• The Expedited Resource Addition Study (ERAS) process, which is a 
temporary, targeted process that allows certain generation projects to utilize 
ERAS instead of the standard, often backlogged, interconnection queue10 
to obtain a Generator Interconnection Agreement faster and connect to the 
grid in significantly less time.  MISO has 52 active ERAS applications 
across 12 states for approximately 26 gigawatts (GW) of proposed new 
generation capacity.  The studies for the first 10 applications have been 
 
9  
Encouraged by the Commission, MISO and other RTOs adopted numerous region-specific variations to the pro 
forma LGIP and LGIA, engaging together with their respective stakeholders, in continuous review, and when 
necessary, reforms, of their generator interconnection practices and procedures.  The Commission has reviewed 
these proposals under its more lenient “independent entity standard,” which allows significant deviations from 
the pro forma rules and accommodates considerable regional variations among RTOs and ISO.  At a minimum, 
the Commission should extend the same flexible principles to large load interconnections under this rulemaking. 
10  For MISO, the standard interconnection queue is the Definitive Planning Phase (DPP) interconnection queue. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
completed and are now in the generator interconnection agreement phase.  
Figure 1 provides a map of the ERAS applications. 
 
• The MISO-Southwest Power Pool (SPP) Joint Targeted Interconnection 
Queue (JTIQ) Study, which is an innovative study process that facilitates 
more timely interconnection study processes and identifies larger, more 
comprehensive transmission projects to allow future interconnection 
requests to occur at lower costs than what would be achieved through the 
ordinary process of studying individual groups of Interconnection Requests 
for the smaller upgrades that those projects typically require.  The JTIQ 
portfolio of upgrades11 are scoped to enable multiple clusters of generation 
and are included in going forward models for transmission planning and 
generation interconnection, including the models for the DPP 2023 cycle12 
and ERAS studies.  JTIQ will enable generation to come online faster and 
provide greater upfront cost certainty for the resources needed to enable 
large load additions. 
 
• Revisions to MISO’s standard interconnection process, including: (i) 
increased milestone payments; (ii) automatic withdrawal penalties; (iii) 
increased withdrawal penalty provisions; and (iv) expanded site control 
requirements 
for 
interconnection 
facilities. 
These 
enhancements 
significantly improve queue speed by deterring speculative projects and 
streamlines the process for those projects that are viable and needed.  
Additionally, starting with the 2025 DPP cycle, MISO will begin limiting 
the amount of interconnection requests that will be studied in any given 
DPP cycle.  Reducing the amount of new generation studied at a time will 
result in more realistic study results and cost estimates, less constraints that 
require new network upgrades, and faster study results.   
 
• Utilization of the Suite of Unified Grid Analyses with Renewables or 
“SUGAR” platform from Pearl Street Technologies to process and speed 
up the large backlog of generator interconnection studies.  SUGAR 
automates the creation and operation of power flow models, and identifies 
transmission constraints and potential mitigation solutions, significantly 
reducing the time needed for the initial phases of the interconnection study.  
This technological integration helps MISO better manage the high volume 
of interconnection requests and will assist in meeting the goal of achieving 
a one-year study timeline for new generation projects. 
 
Figure 1 – Map of Active ERAS Applications 
 
11  As discussed further below, this portfolio is referred to as JTIQ Portfolio #1. 
12  DPP 2023 began on September 30, 2025. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 
 
ii. 
MISO’s existing transmission planning processes help facilitate large load 
additions in a timely manner.  
 
While discussion of generation needs associated with large loads has gotten significant 
attention, it is critical not to overlook the role a robust transmission system plays in ensuring a 
resilient and cost-effective foundation to meet this new load growth.  The transmission system 
allows these new loads to leverage the efficiencies associated with demand and supply side 
diversity across a wide footprint resulting in lower energy costs, lower required resource planning 
reserve margins and increased reliability of supply.  On the transmission planning side, MISO 
currently has three avenues to determine the necessary and most cost-effective transmission system 
improvements for large load interconnections:  

--- PAGE 9 ---
9 
1. The annual MISO Transmission Expansion Plan (MTEP), where MISO 
reviews both NERC driven and Transmission Owner projects to ensure 
reliability is maintained. 
  
2. The Expedited Project Review (EPR) process, which allows an 
expedited review for Transmission Owners who must start construction 
on the transmission projects to support large load additions more 
quickly than would be enabled under normal MTEP timelines; and  
 
3. MISO’s Long Range Transmission Planning (LRTP), which takes a 
long-range (roughly 20- to 40-year) view of the system to address future 
issues and provides flexibility to the electrical grid by enabling the 
integration of diverse energy sources and creating a robust, resilient 
system capable of adapting to future changes, including the 
implementation of large load additions.   
 
These processes work in conjunction with, and build upon, each other.  For example, the 
results of one MTEP cycle, build on the next.   Additionally, large loads may site where backbone 
transmission developed through the LRTP process will be built; these loads would then be able to 
rely on the LRTP transmission as they build their site-specific upgrades through the MTEP or EPR 
processes.   
These processes form a solid foundation, and one which MISO continues to enhance in 
coordination with our stakeholders.  For example, in 2024 and 2025, MISO collaborated with 
stakeholders to implement enhancements to the existing EPR process due to the consistent increase 
in EPR applications (as depicted in Table 1), which reflects the increased proliferation of data 
centers and other large loads. 
 
 

--- PAGE 10 ---
10 
Table 1 – Approved EPRs 
Cycle 
Projects 
Load (MW) 
Investment 
($M) 
2021 
17 
229 
233 
2022 
16 
570 
215 
2023 
36 
1231 
570 
2024 
23 
3391 
947 
2025 
49 
9704 
5035 
  
The EPR enhancements: 
  
1. Provide consistent reliability analysis while recognizing the overall 
impacts of multiple large loads to our system through appropriate 
clustering;  
 
2. Enable MISO to create sequential and well-defined study cases for 
EPRs on an every-other-month basis, including prior-approved 
EPRs, generators with interconnection agreements, and new EPRs 
requesting approvals; and  
 
3. Enable MISO to quickly approve new requests, with opportunities 
for EPRs to potentially be recommended for approval monthly, 
depending on the complexity of the study and the solutions 
identified to support the new load.  
Under the processes discussed above, since the 2022 MTEP cycle, MISO has approved 
approximately 17 GW of large load additions.13  For comparison purposes, the net summer peak 
load for the state of Arkansas in 2025 was 15.9 GW.14 
iii. 
MISO’s updated long-term load forecasting and outreach efforts help 
efficiently facilitate large load interconnections. 
Between 2009 and 2024, MISO’s peak load remained essentially flat, with an average 
CAGR of 0.5%.  Load forecasting during this period relied heavily on methods that assumed that 
 
13  This figure was determined by starting with the 2022 MTEP Cycle and looking at projects of 50 MW or greater. 
As of the date of this filing, 52 such projects, for 17 GW of load, have been approved.   
14  https://www.eia.gov/electricity/state/  

--- PAGE 11 ---
11 
historical trends and relationships between economic variables and electricity demand would 
persist into the future.  However, as discussed earlier, data centers, industrial, and transportation 
drivers are materially increasing the outlook for load growth over the coming years.  Projected 
load growth within MISO’s footprint is expected to be approximately three times higher than 
previously forecasted.  
In late 2024, MISO updated its load forecast approach to incorporate new methods, metrics 
and models to improve the accuracy of long-term forecasts.  These updates enable MISO to align 
emerging trends with actual historical outputs to better keep pace with rapid industry shifts.  
Central to these updates is a shift toward end-use modeling and refined industry segmentation, 
allowing for a deeper assessment of critical load growth drivers.  MISO’s updated load forecast 
accounts for load growth across five key drivers.15  The updated load forecast approach generates 
three distinct outlooks to account for uncertainty, each reflecting a range of potential drivers such 
as industrial activity, data centers and building electrification.  The forecasts are also benchmarked 
against member-provided load data to ensure alignment and accuracy.  As discussed further below, 
MISO is working to update its forecast again in early 2026.  Indications are showing that large 
load growth continues to accelerate from previous forecasts, which continues to highlight the 
importance of developing processes to find the best way to reliably and efficiently integrate new 
large loads. 
B. MISO’s efforts to enhance Large Load Interconnections. 
As evidenced above, MISO’s existing processes are effectively interconnecting large loads 
in a timely fashion, with approximately 17 GW of large load additions since the 2022 MTEP cycle.  
 
15  The five key drivers are: (1) Artificial Intelligence Revolution and Data Centers; (2) Building Electrification; 
(3) Electric Vehicles; (4) New Industry Development and Reshoring; (5) hydrogen; and (6) distributed energy 
resources.Seehttps://cdn.misoenergy.org/MISO%20Long-
Term%20Load%20Forecast%20Whitepaper_December%202024667166.pdf. 

--- PAGE 12 ---
12 
Nonetheless, MISO is also actively engaged in multiple efforts to help improve such 
interconnections in a reliable manner, enhance MISO’s ability to forecast for such load additions, 
and to enhance MISO’s ability to operationally address such large load additions.   
For example, MISO continues to actively develop and refine its forecasting. MISO recently 
launched a pilot load survey, which represents an important step toward obtaining more granular 
information for large loads, as well as anticipated future buildouts.16  The data to be collected 
through the survey includes: (1) existing large loads and data centers; (2) planned large loads and 
data centers; (3) peak demand forecasts; (4) energy forecasts; (5) electric vehicles; (6) distributed 
generation and storage; and (7) demand side management and energy efficiency.  
MISO also consistently communicates with its members to help facilitate the addition of 
new large loads. Such efforts include: 
• Periodic communications with members to discuss large load additions, including 
potential developmental efforts, timing, location(s), and size(s).   
 
• Responding to questions associated with existing processes to help facilitate new 
large load additions, for example as a part of the ERAS, MTEP or EPR processes. 
 
• Working with regional or national organizations focused on understanding and 
managing load growth.  
These types of outreach efforts assist MISO in efficiently planning for and efficiently adding new 
large load additions.  
MISO is also focused on identifying a minimal set of reliability requirements needed for 
large loads to reliably materialize within the MISO footprint.  To do this, MISO developed an 
internal large load program and advisory committee and created an enterprise risk framework that 
 
16  As of November 19, 2025, MISO received 51 submissions from 44 entities responsible for approximately 75% 
of MISO’s total energy. 

--- PAGE 13 ---
13 
ties all requirements directly to both existing and emerging risks posed by large loads.17  The 
framework defines risk dimensions, develops scenarios, identifies gaps in current practices, and 
translates these into reliability requirements and planning parameters that make risks measurable 
and manageable.  In building this enterprise risk framework, MISO brought together as much  
material on this topic as possible and is determining the additional necessary steps to mitigate the 
operational risks of large load additions in MISO’s footprint. 
Finally, while currently generation and transmission studies to support large load additions 
are done separately, MISO is considering approaches to study transmission and generation 
simultaneously for large load additions.  MISO is also developing a “zero-injection generator 
interconnection agreement” proposal for generation co-located with load.  The zero-injection 
generator interconnection agreement would allow a generator to serve load directly but grants no 
interconnection service and would prevent the generator from injecting onto the transmission 
system.  This proposal would allow processing of the generator request outside the standard queue 
process, since the transmission system would not be utilized by the generator.  MISO plans to 
address this proposal with stakeholders in the near future. Any final proposal that requires tariff 
changes would be filed with the Commission for acceptance. 
C. Requiring standard large load interconnection procedures will likely delay large 
load interconnections.  
As noted above, shifting to standard large load interconnection procedures could introduce 
delays to interconnecting large loads, which would be contrary to the progress desired by the DOE 
and the Commission.  The reasons for delays include: (1) utilizing a generator interconnection 
process as a template that historically has experienced delays and is unlikely to provide the speed 
to power needed by large load customers; (2) requiring additional work and requirements that are 
 
17  See MISO’s Reliability Technical Conference, Panel 2, comments of Jennifer Curran at p. 9. 

--- PAGE 14 ---
14 
not currently required under MISO’s existing processes, and which may be unnecessary; and (3) 
meaningful differences between generation and load that will prevent a seamless utilization of the 
generator interconnection process for large load interconnection purposes and will present 
challenges.   
i. 
The delays experienced in the standard generator interconnection procedures 
indicate that such an approach for large loads is unlikely to provide speed to 
power. 
As noted earlier, the proposed ANOPR appears to request that standard large load 
interconnection procedures, similar to the large generator interconnection procedures, be 
implemented.  While large load interconnection procedures would need to vary in process from 
the large generator interconnection procedures, the generation interconnection queue process 
provides warnings of the ability to rapidly enact a ”one size fits all” approach for large loads, which 
would thwart the speed to power needed by such large loads.   
Historically the standard generator interconnection procedures resulting from Order No. 
200318 experienced delays in processing studies and achieving executed generator interconnection 
agreements.  The delays were in part due to: (1) utilizing an interconnection queue that required 
customers to wait on others to be studied (e.g. queued into a line), rather than studying on an as 
available basis; and (2) restudies necessitated by speculative requests that were withdrawn.19  The 
delays led to numerous RTOs and Transmission Owners filing for interconnection queue reforms. 
20 years later, the Commission issued revised universal interconnection procedure reforms in 
 
18  Standardization of Generator Interconnection Agreements & Procs., Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103 (2003), 
order on reh 'g, Order No. 2003-A, 106 FERC ¶ 61,220 (2004), order on reh 'g, Order No. 2003-B, 109 FERC ¶ 
61,287 (2004), order on reh 'g, Order No. 2003-C,  111 FERC ¶ 61,401 (2005), aff'd sub nom. Nat'l Ass 'n of 
Regul. Util. Comm'rs v. FERC, 475 F.3d 1277 (D.C. Cir. 2007). 
19  Some of these delays are due to factors outside of the control of either the Commission or transmission providers, 
such as the large increase in the number of new interconnection requests and rapidly evolving industry needs and 
preferences that drive the need for new generation and can create uncertainty for stakeholders.  Other delays relate 
to how generation must be studied to facilitate cost allocation of Network Upgrades. 

--- PAGE 15 ---
15 
Order No. 2023, such as cluster study process, increased study deposits, increased financial 
commitments and readiness requirements, and study delay penalties.20  
While these reformed generator interconnection procedures now implement a standard 
cluster study approach, even that approach potentially would require large load customers to wait 
to be studied while prior-queued large load requests’ studies are completed (e.g., there are cluster 
request windows by which generator interconnection customers must submit requests, otherwise 
they must wait until the next cycle).21  This is in contrast to the processes MISO uses today, which 
allows such requests to be studied as they are ready based on preliminary work done by the large 
load customer and LSE.  The utilization of a queue could inherently lead to delays.   
In addition, even these reformed generator interconnection procedures are still susceptible 
to speculative generator interconnection requests, which can result in delays if/when the 
speculative requests withdraw.  According to data from the Lawrence Berkeley National 
Laboratory, only about 13% of the total capacity entering interconnection queues nationwide 
ultimately achieves commercial operation.22  Withdrawals of speculative interconnection requests 
frequently require restudies, particularly for later-stage withdrawals, which in turn could delay 
completion of studies and ultimately delay bringing viable generation proposals online.  Creating 
standard large load interconnection procedures patterned off of the large generator interconnection 
procedures would carry the same type of potential for delays and unsuccessful requests. In contrast, 
MISO’s existing processes: (1) mitigate against speculative large load requests due to the 
 
20  Improvements to Generator Interconnection Procs. & Agreements, Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054, order 
on reh 'g, 185 FERC ¶ 61,063 (2023), order on reh 'g, Order No. 2023-A, 186 FERC ¶ 61,199, errata notice, 188 
FERC ¶ 61,134 (2024). 
21  MISO notes the proposed ANOPR does not clarify whether large load requests would be studied on a serial or 
cluster basis. 
22  https://emp.lbl.gov/sites/default/files/2024-04/Queued%20Up%202024%20Edition_1.pdf  

--- PAGE 16 ---
16 
meaningful work typically undertaken between the MISO member(s) and large load customer(s) 
prior to submitting requests to MISO; and (2) provide MISO approvals more quickly, with such 
approvals being provided monthly, depending on the complexity of the study and the solutions 
identified to support the new load.  
ii. 
Requiring large load interconnection procedures will require new requirements 
and work that do not currently exist and could delay large load interconnections. 
 
Requiring a shift to standard large load interconnection procedures will require new work 
to be undertaken by MISO that is not currently undertaken, as well as new requirements and 
business risks for large loads that are not currently required.  Under the existing paradigm in MISO, 
typically prospective large loads initially interact directly with transmission owners and/or states 
to determine whether to locate their loads in a particular area.  Part of that work entails the MISO 
members undertaking analyses to determine the extent of upgrades needed to implement the large 
load addition(s).  Once that work is complete, the MISO member submits the request to MISO for 
implementation.  The proposed ANOPR appears to eliminate the initial, critical work undertaken 
by the MISO member(s).  Similar to what occurs today in the generator interconnection 
procedures, large load interconnection procedures will allow speculative requests to be submitted 
and studied as opposed to having a well formulated proposal that is supported by the large load 
customers, MISO members, and states before MISO becomes involved.   
Additionally, generator interconnection procedures include requirements such as site 
control, financial commitments, and readiness requirements; MISO does not require such 
obligations to be under its existing practices.  These requirements on large loads at a wholesale 
level are not only an increase in obligations for customers, but also an increase in administrative 
work and processing for MISO that do not exist today.  These requirements create significant risks 

--- PAGE 17 ---
17 
that would thwart the speed to power needed for such interconnections, will be time consuming 
and likely onerous for new types of stakeholders that have never been subject to them before. 
iii. 
There are significant differences between generation and load that will not 
allow a seamless use of the standard generator interconnection process for large 
loads. 
Furthermore, to the extent the ANOPR purports to utilize the generator interconnection 
procedures as a template for large load interconnections, there are significant differences between 
generation and load that will not allow for a seamless utilization of the generator interconnection 
process for large load interconnection purposes and, consequently, could delay interconnections of 
large loads.  MISO provides examples of differences between generation and load below.  
First, generators and load have very different regulatory histories.  Prior to the development 
of uniform Large Generator Interconnection Procedures (LGIP) and Large Generator 
Interconnection Agreement (LGIA) in order No. 2003, some generators were subject to entry 
barriers to the transmission system (i.e., entry on the same terms as generators owned by the entity 
that also owned the needed transmission facilities).  The Commission extended the open access 
principles of Order No. 888 to generator interconnections to address these concerns.  The principles 
that underlie the LGIP/LGIA reflect a long development history of both major and minor 
rulemakings informed by these considerations.  While the study process for generating facilities 
may be costly and time consuming, it provides generators with valuable uniform “interconnection 
service,” including Energy Resource Interconnection Service and Network Resource 
Interconnection Service that addresses specific needs of generators and provides defined services 
that align with how generation developers structured their commercial arrangements.    
In contrast, there is no evidence of undue discrimination of loads, large or small, by load 
serving utilities.  Unlike generators, individual load additions can site where they want and are not 
assigned costs for their impacts to the transmission system at a wholesale level.  Load is not in 

--- PAGE 18 ---
18 
competition with vertically integrated utilities because load is a consumer of energy whose 
existence creates the need for the utility to serve.  This is a very different paradigm than what 
generators faced prior to the development of the LGIP.  Further, loads are retail customers and the 
FPA assigns the task of policing the relationship between retail customers and load serving entities 
to state public utility commissions.  State regulators have tools to ensure that load interconnection 
procedures are just and reasonable and, in fact, such procedures exist in many states in the MISO 
footprint.  Creating a parallel set of provisions at the federal level will likely result in confusion 
and may create opportunities for forum shopping. 
Second, the core components of the LGIP/LGIA construct are geared specifically to 
generators and do not provide a reasonable template for load interconnection procedures.  For 
example, the pro forma generator interconnection services, ERIS and NRIS, are generator-specific 
products that cannot be adapted to loads.  The generator queuing process, the specific 
interconnection studies, the myriad of technical, penalty and timing mechanisms and requirements 
included in the LGIP likewise are all geared towards generators and cannot be easily adapted to 
the load interconnection process based on the same assumptions.  
In addition, the generator interconnection procedures assume the process will culminate in 
an interconnection agreement that establishes the contractual relationship between the generator 
and the transmission provider and imposes rights on obligations on each for the life of the 
generating unit.  Unlike generators, loads are not in the electricity industry business and many 
construction, facility operation and maintenance obligations that the pro forma LGIA imposes on 
generators are impractical with respect to loads.  Consequently, there are numerous practical 
questions about which—if any—of the existing rights and obligations codified in the 
Commission’s pro forma LGIA make sense to apply to load.   

--- PAGE 19 ---
19 
D. MISO comments regarding the 14 DOE principles. 
MISO appreciates the DOE’s efforts to further the discussion in the industry on this 
important topic.  At this time, MISO has not yet formulated positions on all of the 14 principles 
set forth in DOE’s proposed ANOPR, but has provided comments for consideration.  Moreover, 
MISO does not yet have experience with the volume and types of dense large loads that are 
expected in the future and, therefore, MISO’s comments and positions could change based on 
experience.  
As described in detail below, while well-intentioned, many of the principles are either not 
practical or would require significant Tariff and business practice changes for MISO and, 
consequently, will not lead to the speed to power sought in the proposed ANOPR.  Several of the 
principles lead to further questions, as opposed to providing guidance, and would require further 
collaboration among the necessary parties.  The need for further collaboration supports the 
Commission granting flexibility for MISO to: (1) interconnect large loads pursuant to processes 
that reflect the unique circumstances of MISO’s members, states, stakeholders, and transmission 
systems; and (2) seek Commission acceptance of enhancements developed through appropriate 
stakeholder processes. 
1. Commission jurisdiction. 
 
MISO works with its members and states through collaborative, stakeholder-driven 
processes in a variety of areas, including long-range transmission planning, market design, and 
training.  This approach ensures input from various groups are considered to help shape the 
development of future scenarios, policies, and system operations.  A key example is that, consistent 
with its Tariff, through MISO’s MTEP and LRTP, MISO is obligated to include a resource 
expansion that aligns with the MISO member integrated resource plans.  As such, transmission 

--- PAGE 20 ---
20 
planning works to help ensure the energy planned by members, and required due to their plans or 
load growth, can be delivered to where it is needed.  
Today, MISO members and states actively engage with potential large load customers (such 
as data centers).  While MISO actively engages in such efforts, as well, MISO does not have the 
first-hand knowledge of our members’ or states’ circumstances and priorities in developing such 
economic opportunities.  Thus, while the Commission may have the jurisdiction to implement the 
large load interconnection procedures proposed in the DOE proposed ANOPR, to the extent such 
a process allows large loads to bypass working directly with MISO members and states, MISO 
respectfully urges the Commission to consider that such a bypass could lead to less efficient 
proposals for interconnection of large loads and, consequently, make such interconnections more 
costly, ineffective, and more time consuming.  
From a jurisdictional perspective, it will also be important for the Commission to consider 
whether the interconnection of large loads constitutes a retail sale of electricity as the large loads 
could be viewed as end users.  The U.S. Supreme Court has stated that, although “the wholesale 
and retail markets in electricity are inextricably linked,”23 the Commission “may not regulate. . . 
retail sales of electricity.”24  The Court further stated that “no matter how direct, or dramatic” a 
proposal’s impact on wholesale rates, the Commission still may not regulate retail electricity 
sales.25  The Court also clarified that because the FPA limits the Commission’s jurisdiction to 
wholesale sales, reserving regulatory authority over retail sales to the states alone, a regulation that 
 
23  FERC v. Elec. Power Supply Ass’n, 577 U.S. 260, 279 (2016).  
24  Id. at 267 (citing New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1, 17, 23 (2002)).  The Court emphasized that state utility 
commissions continue to oversee retail transactions.  Id. 
25  Id. at 279-80.  This statement presents a limit on the Court’s finding that the Commission has authority under the 
FPA to ensure that practices directly affecting wholesale rates are just and reasonable.  Id. at 277-78.  

--- PAGE 21 ---
21 
“specifies terms of sale at retail” would exceed the Commission’s authority under the FPA.26   
The integral nature of the critical roles MISO’s members and states currently serve in 
facilitating the interconnection of large load additions further emphasizes the need for the 
Commission to be mindful of regional differences that might limit the success of “one size fits all” 
mandates.  Instead, the Commission should authorize RTOs to interconnect large loads pursuant 
to processes that are effective, reflect region-specific needs and characteristics, and are informed 
by robust stakeholder-driven processes.  As noted earlier, MISO currently has effective processes 
that facilitate large load additions in a timely manner and is continuing to explore potential 
enhancements; MISO respectfully recommends it be allowed to continue such processes in lieu of 
standard large load interconnection procedures.  
2. The reforms should only apply to new loads greater than 20 MW and, for hybrid facilities, 
where the load is greater than 20 MW. We seek comment on alternative thresholds, 
including whether such a threshold is necessary at all. 
MISO interprets this principle to define what constitutes a “large load” for interconnection 
purposes and whether any thresholds should be implemented for that purpose.  As discussed below, 
defining what constitutes a “large load” can vary from region to region and further supports the 
Commission authorizing RTOs to interconnect large loads pursuant to processes that 
reflect region-specific needs and characteristics and not mandating a one-size fits all process.  
MISO has been actively involved in many discussions related to potentially formulating a 
definition for large loads, as well as setting a minimum threshold for load to be considered “large.” 
One of the challenges is that large loads have different impacts from one Balancing Authority to 
the next and, accordingly, are handled differently amongst Balancing Authorities.27  Another 
 
26  Id. at 279-80. 
27  The different impacts could include impacts due to size, electrical strength, and/or other types of equipment on 
the grid. 

--- PAGE 22 ---
22 
challenge is that a universal definition would need to account for pre-existing or in-process large 
load additions, which means existing large loads would fall in the scope and requirements, but 
existing facilities may not have the technology or means to comply.  
Variables such as forecasting data availability, characteristics of the load, and the location 
and the density of the load and transmission infrastructure of the area should be considered in 
defining what loads should be considered ”large”.  For example, density of load and transmission 
infrastructure in the surrounding area will impact contingency studies.  A large load that is 
connected inside a transmission constrained area could also impact the day to day operations in 
ways that exceed the impacts of the same load in an area with more robust connections.  ISO/RTOs 
will need the flexibility to determine which variables outweigh others in specific circumstances. 
There are already some existing Reliability Standards that provide ISO/RTOs this flexibility, such 
as MOD-032-1 Attachment 1, where the Transmission Planner/Planning Coordinator can define 
when additional information is needed. 
Further consideration should be given to whether the Commission (or NERC) should 
either: (i) define large loads as an “Applicable Entity”, which could mean end-users would become 
a Functional or Registered Entity type; or (ii) write the standard requirements so that large loads 
would be defined by facility types or through explicit threshold language within the requirements. 
Additionally, the collective responses of NERC’s recently issued NERC Alert Large Load 
Interconnection, Study, Commissioning, and Operations should be considered in determining 
whether a universal approach to defining large load thresholds is appropriate or if a hybrid, varied 
approach would be more effective. 
In light of the above, a universal definition of “large load” should not be based solely on 
size.  Instead, MISO recommends a hybrid approach to determining what constitutes a “large 

--- PAGE 23 ---
23 
load.”  The hybrid approach could consist of: (i) NERC registration or NERC Reliability Standards 
development; and (ii) allowing ISO/RTOs to determine specific minimum thresholds to support 
market registration and application processes that fit the unique needs of their footprints.  
3. To the extent practicable, load and hybrid facilities should be studied together with 
generating facilities. 
 
MISO currently studies generation and load largely separately.  As discussed in response 
to Principle #5, maintaining separate visibility of generation and load into the operating horizon is 
critical for reliability purposes.  Further, separating transmission upgrades required for load and 
generation can assist in appropriately assigning the costs of necessary system enhancements.   
That being said, MISO has implemented revisions, for example, to its Business Practice 
Manual (BPM) 15, under which it considers whether transmission projects identified under newly 
approved loads additions will alleviate constraints identified for a generator interconnection 
request(s).  Under this process transmission projects from those newly approved loads can be tested 
to see if generator interconnection constraints would be alleviated after adding the transmission 
projects and the load.  Conversely, MISO can consider new generation with signed agreements as 
mitigation in the connection of large loads, potentially reducing the amount of transmission that 
may be constructed while maintaining reasonable certainty that the mitigating action (in this case 
the construction of generation) will proceed.  
4. Standardized study deposits, readiness requirements, and withdrawal penalties. 
 
As discussed in detail above, MISO has concerns that standard large load interconnection 
procedures will delay interconnection of large loads, which would be contrary to the intent DOE’s 
proposed ANOPR and hinder the competitiveness of the United States in the deployment of 
artificial intelligence technologies and to support needed economic development.  This principle 
assumes such large load interconnection procedures are implemented, which as discussed above 

--- PAGE 24 ---
24 
would place new obligations and work on large load customers and MISO.  Under those 
circumstances, MISO agrees that study deposits, readiness requirements and withdrawal penalties 
would be needed to help mitigate speculative requests.  
5. Hybrid facilities should be studied based on the amount of injection and/or withdrawal 
rights requested. For example, a hybrid facility consisting of a 500 MW load and a 600 
MW generating facility may seek no withdrawal rights and 100 MW of injection rights. 
 
As noted in response to Principle #3, currently generation and transmission studies to 
support large load additions are done separately.  However, as noted earlier in these comments, 
MISO is considering approaches to study transmission and generation simultaneously for large 
load additions.  While it may be that in the future studies can be done simultaneously, it is critical 
for reliability purposes in the operational horizon that MISO views the output from the generator 
being placed on the system separately from the load being served.  Each input will impact how the 
MISO system responds to maintain reliability.  
From a market’s perspective, load and generation are settled separately today by MISO.  
Depending on the design of the hybrid facility (i.e., if the hybrid facility has a different point of 
receipt and a different point of interconnection), the generation and load may have different 
locational marginal prices and, consequently, would need to be settled separately to accurately 
reflect their cost to serve.  It may also be that a hybrid facility will want to rely on the system to 
serve its load depending on market pricing; in that case, it will also be necessary to separate load 
and generation for settlement purposes.  As a practical matter, however, if the load and generation 
are both registered to the same market participant, then the settlement statement(s) would largely 
reflect a netting of the load and generation.  If the Commission were to require a netting of 
generation and load for market settlement purposes, it may require significant Tariff and BPM 
revisions for MISO. 

--- PAGE 25 ---
25 
6. Any hybrid interconnection shall be required to install the system protection facilities 
necessary to prevent unauthorized injections or withdrawals that exceed the respective 
rights. 
MISO agrees that hybrid interconnections should be required to install protective relays to 
prevent unauthorized injections or withdrawals.  MISO notes that NERC is considering this topic.  
NERC issued a white paper "Characteristics and Risks of Emerging Large Loads" in July of this 
year, which discusses the need for protective facilities to prevent unauthorized injections or 
withdrawals from co-located generation or load, particularly in behind-the-meter configurations.  
7. The interconnection study of large loads that agree to be curtailable and hybrid facilities 
that agree to be curtailable and dispatchable should be expedited. 
MISO does not have a final position regarding this principle, but notes that: (1) large loads 
may not desire to be curtailable given their general high electricity needs; and (2) MISO’s primary 
goal is to facilitate the interconnections of large loads in a manner that allows the system to 
continue to operate reliably.  At the same time, MISO fully supports the efficient use of 
transmission system, which could involve expedited study processes for large loads that agree to 
be curtailable or hybrid facilities that agree to curtailable and dispatchable.  An example of MISO’s 
efforts to facilitate the efficient use of the system is the zero injection generator interconnection 
agreement approach that MISO is currently finalizing to propose to stakeholders in the near future. 
Overall, MISO has an interest to provide safe and reliable service that meets its customers, 
members, and states’ resource plans and interests.  
8. Load and hybrid facilities should be responsible for 100% of the network upgrades they 
are assigned through the interconnection studies. 
This principle reflects a shift from what occurs today.  As noted above, MISO’s members 
and states currently undertake important work in facilitating the interconnection of large load 
additions prior to MISO’s involvement.  In addition to ensuring that non-speculative proposals are 
submitted for MISO’s review, MISO understands the work generally involves agreements between 

--- PAGE 26 ---
26 
the load serving entity (LSE) and the large load customer for recovery of costs, such as network 
upgrades, required to allow the large load to come online and provide service.  
This principle would call for MISO allocating such costs directly to the large load customer.  
MISO has concerns with this approach as it may reduce the options and flexibility that exist today 
between the LSE, large load customer, and possibly the retail jurisdiction, to develop creative 
approaches for cost recovery to more readily facilitate siting of new large load additions.   
9. To the extent the interconnection customer is not the transmission owner, the 
interconnection customer shall be afforded the same (or equivalent) option to build as 
currently provided to generator interconnection customers. 
As a practical matter, MISO notes that the option to build is rarely chosen by generator 
interconnection customers in MISO.  However, when this option is chosen by interconnection 
customers, they are typically power companies that have utility branches and already have 
expertise in transmission.  Loads are not in a similar position and do not have this expertise.   
Moreover, bulk power system owners, operators, and users must register with NERC to 
ensure compliance with mandatory reliability standards.  This includes generators.  However, loads 
are not currently required to register with NERC.  Therefore, there would currently be no 
responsibility or accountability for loads that build interconnection facilities or network upgrades.  
Consequently, MISO views this principle as impractical.   
10. An existing generating facility that seeks to enter a partial suspension to serve a new load 
at the same location must go through a system support resource (SSR)/reliability must run 
(RMR) type study.  We invite comments on whether and how resource adequacy should be 
considered in the SSR / RMR type study. 
MISO interprets this principle as involving a generator that currently serves load on the 
MISO transmission system but would completely disconnect (referred to as a “suspension” in the 
principle) from the MISO transmission system to serve co-located load and how resource adequacy 
should be considered in such a scenario.  In the MISO, states are primarily responsible for resource 

--- PAGE 27 ---
27 
adequacy, which involves overseeing LSEs and ensuring LSEs plan for and secure enough power 
to meet their customers’ demand.  MISO supports resource adequacy by determining Planning 
Reserve Margin, administering the Planning Resource Auction and providing data for planning, 
but it is the states’ and LSEs' responsibility to ensure they meet their required capacity.  Because 
the vast majority of MISO’s states and LSEs are vertically integrated, it is unlikely that state 
commission(s) would authorize an existing generator(s) to discontinue serving existing load of an 
LSE to solely serve new co-located load.  However, the states would need to determine whether 
such a change would be in the public interest based on a number of factors, including impacts to 
resource adequacy.    
In MISO, there can be no suspension (partial or otherwise) of a generator if it is still 
synchronously connected to the transmission system.  Under MISO’s Tariff, a disconnected 
generator would be considered a generator retirement, which is reviewed pursuant to Attachment 
Y and includes MISO conducting a reliability study to determine if the proposed retirement will 
result in local reliability issues.  If the study finds local reliability issues, MISO could require the 
generator to remain connected to the transmission system until necessary transmission upgrades 
are constructed and operational.  MISO load would pay for the upgrades required to resolve the 
local reliability issues.  However, if the disconnected generator later proposes to reconnect to the 
MISO transmission system, it would be assessed the costs of the upgrades. 
11. Utilities serving large loads, including those at hybrid facilities, should be responsible for 
transmission service based on their withdrawal rights, as that value amount reflects the 
quantity of capacity and energy that is being transmitted across the transmission system to 
the load.  
This principle represents a deviation from how MISO currently assesses transmission rates 
for network integration transmission service under Schedule 9 of its Tariff, which is based on peak 
load.  The Schedule 9 charges are obtained by applying the effective annual Schedule 9 zonal rate 

--- PAGE 28 ---
28 
to the Network Load, which includes Grandfathered Load or load served by Behind-the-Meter 
Generation.28  This principle appears to net the load and generation for purposes of establishing 
the transmission service requirements. No such netting occurs today in MISO. 
12. Utilities serving large loads, including those at hybrid facilities, should be responsible for 
ancillary services based on peak demand, without consideration of any co-located 
generation. Any co-located generating facilities will similarly be fully compensated for the 
provision of ancillary services. 
MISO agrees that large loads should be treated like any other loads for procuring required 
ancillary services.  Moreover, to the extent co-located generation provides ancillary services, it 
should be compensated.   
In the Day Ahead and Real Time Operating Reserve Markets, the costs for Ancillary 
Services products (e.g., spinning, supplemental, regulation and short-term reserves) are paid in 
MISO by the load on an hourly basis.  The ancillary services needed for a Reserve Zone are 
procured from generation in that Reserve Zone and the costs are allocated to load based on their 
load ratio share in the Reserve Zone.  In this way, load pays for the actual use of ancillary services. 
This applies to how large loads in MISO are assessed ancillary service charges today and this 
approach adheres to cost causation.   
In contrast, the ANOPR proposes to assess ancillary service charges based on peak load.  
Unlike MISO’s current approach, using peak load would mean that ancillary services are charged 
based upon the highest use in one hour.  This is not consistent with the cost causation principle as 
it does not assess based on load’s actual use of ancillary services.  Moreover, the approach is 
inconsistent with how MISO procures ancillary services, which are procured based on Market-
Wide and Co-Optimized Zonal Requirements.  These requirements can adjust hourly.  Changing 
 
28  See MISO BPM-012 Transmission Settlements Business Practices Manual at Section 3.1.8.2. 

--- PAGE 29 ---
29 
to peak load would require Tariff, business practice manual, and system changes to at least four of 
our existing charge types.   
13. There must be a plan to implement these proposed reforms. We seek comment on 
appropriate transition plans, including the treatment of large load interconnections that are 
already being studied for interconnection.  
Implementation of any proposed reforms will be time consuming and detract from current 
efforts to implement and enhance existing MISO processes that effectively integrate new large 
loads.  Consequently, MISO respectfully urges the Commission to not require standard large load 
interconnection procedures but instead authorize RTOs and ISOs to develop or demonstrate the 
effectiveness of existing large load integration processes that meet the unique circumstances of 
their members, states, stakeholders, and transmission systems.  
If the Commission does mandate a standard large load interconnection procedures, the 
steps required for implementation will include: (1) development of internal processes; (2) resource 
evaluation and potential expansion; and (3) development of additional technical capabilities – all 
of which should be finalized through stakeholder review.  It may be that in undertaking the 
implementation steps, MISO: (1) may identify further refinements necessary for implementation 
and such refinements may reflect unique circumstances in MISO, or (2) will continue to learn 
about data center behavior, which may require an alternative compliance approach to ensure 
efficient interconnection.  Therefore, it will be imperative for the Commission to provide sufficient 
time for implementation and to grant flexibility.29 
14. Utilities serving large loads must meet all applicable NERC reliability standards and OATT 
provisions.  Utilities and we must be prepared to revise large load interconnection 
procedures and agreements, as necessary.  NERC should review its reliability standards to 
 
29  MISO notes that its Board of Directors has also made commitments to implementation of enhancements for large 
load interconnections. The commitments include: (1) strategic priorities of the Markets Committee to address 
operational risks from large load additions on ramp, adequacy, and stability; and (2) addressing Market 
Participation and Registration of Co-Located Load and Generation as a part of the Planning Subcommittee. 

--- PAGE 30 ---
30 
determine if new registration categories or new or modified reliability standards are 
required to ensure reliability of the BES.  
NERC has taken a structured, multi-phase approach to address the reliability risks posed 
by emerging large loads such as data centers, AI training facilities, cryptocurrency mining, and 
hydrogen production through the work of the Large Loads Task Force (LLTF).  Through these 
efforts, the NERC LLTF finalized a white paper on the Characterizations of Emerging Large 
Loads, which defines large loads and categorizes their types.  The white paper identifies reliability 
risks across planning, operations, stability, power quality, security, and system restoration domains. 
The NERC LLTF is also in the process of finalizing a second white paper on Assessment of Gaps 
in Existing Practices, Requirements, and Reliability Standards, as well as drafting a Reliability 
Guideline for mitigating risks, including recommendations for data sharing, modeling, 
interconnection processes, and operational coordination.  MISO is actively following and 
contributing to the efforts of the NERC LLTF. 
The work of the NERC LLTF has highlighted the key reliability risks associated with large 
load fluctuations or sudden disconnection.  These risks include frequency instability, voltage 
instability, balancing and reserves, Area Control Error (ACE) volatility, and system restoration 
challenges.  Large loads, like all other grid assets, should be designed and behave in a manner that 
does not negatively impact grid reliability.  Given their size and unique electrical characteristics, 
it is warranted for NERC and the industry to evaluate the impact of current designs and determine 
if they should be changed.  New rules should be added to the extent that the impact of large load’s 
performance during disturbances leads to negative outcomes.  
The NERC LLTF also recently released a preliminary Reliability Guideline entitled “Risk 
Mitigation for Emerging Large Loads” to address reliability challenges from large, power-
electronics-based facilities such as data centers, hydrogen production, and crypto operations.  The 

--- PAGE 31 ---
31 
guideline provides practical recommendations for planners, operators, developers, and equipment 
manufacturers to improve interconnection practices, visibility, modeling, ride-through 
performance, protection coordination, and restoration planning.  It is not a new compliance 
standard but a set of best practices aimed at ensuring large loads are visible, predictable, and 
coordinated within the bulk power system.  The Request for Comment period runs from November 
3 to December 19, 2025 and NERC is seeking feedback from industry stakeholders on the 
practicality, clarity, and applicability of the proposed recommendations to ensure the final 
guideline effectively supports reliability as large load growth accelerates across North America. 
MISO encourages the industry to come together for this evaluation and determination.  
NERC Reliability Standards focusing on Protection and Control, as well as Facility 
Interconnection Requirements30 and others may need to be updated to address the reliability risks 
that large load additions pose.  A key challenge in addressing these reliability risks (through NERC 
Reliability Standards development) is the need to require large loads registrations or gain industry 
consensus on applying large load considerations within the NERC Reliability Standard 
requirements where there currently are varying definitions amongst regions. Another challenge 
could be addressing potential limitations that some end-users have regarding data collection, 
sharing, and monitoring. 
In addition to the NERC LLTF efforts, MISO is also focused on identifying a minimal set 
of reliability requirements needed for large loads to reliably materialize within the MISO footprint. 
To do this, MISO developed an internal large load program and advisory committee and created 
an enterprise risk framework that ties all requirements directly to both existing and emerging risks 
posed by large loads.  The framework defines risk dimensions, develops scenarios, identifies gaps 
 
30  For example, PRC-024, PRC-019/PRC-029, PRC-002/PRC-008, FAC-001/FAC-002.   

--- PAGE 32 ---
32 
in current practices, and translates these into reliability requirements and planning parameters that 
make risks measurable and manageable.  In building this enterprise risk framework, MISO brought 
together as much material on this topic as possible and is determining the additional necessary 
steps to mitigate the operational risks of large load additions in MISO’s footprint.  
Consequently, MISO is not only drawing on NERC LLTF work, but also considering 
industry experiences across the U.S., Europe, and Canada, as well as evaluating documented risks 
from grid operators’ perspectives.  MISO also coordinates with industry peers such as the ISO/RTO 
Council (IRC), Energy Systems Integration Group (ESIG), Electric Power Research Institute 
(EPRI), Eastern Interconnection Planning Collaborative (EIPC), and other stakeholder groups to 
share ideas, lessons learned, and approaches to integrating large loads reliably.   
MISO is supportive of NERC’s efforts and will continue to engage with NERC.  MISO 
will also continue to utilize the work products of the LLTF to support and inform MISO’s risk 
framework and approach to integrating large loads in the MISO footprint regardless of the timing 
of formal NERC standards.  MISO understands the NERC standards process can take some time, 
but in the same way MISO has adopted requirements ahead of NERC requirements relating to 
Inverter-based Resources, MISO will consider adoption of appropriate tools and requirements to 
ensure the reliable integration of large loads in partnership with our members. 
In addition to the NERC efforts described above, large loads can also lead to increased 
congestion along seams between different operating entities, especially if sufficient generation 
and/or transmission is not in place or built to support the additional load.  A rapid influx of vast 
amounts of new load, especially in certain areas, could make congestion more difficult to manage 
under the current systems that are in place, particularly if a portion of the load is curtailable while 
the remainder is firm.  In addition, a significant increase in congestion on the MISO-SPP and 

--- PAGE 33 ---
33 
MISO-PJM seams could affect the ability of the Market-to-Market process31 to function efficiently, 
resulting in higher overall payments between the RTOs.  Therefore, if the Commission decides to 
move forward with standard large load interconnection procedures, it should also consider how to 
mitigate the potential increase in congestion along the seam(s) that could result from the 
interconnection of large loads. 
II. Conclusion 
MISO appreciates the: (1) opportunity to provide comments regarding the DOE proposed 
ANOPR, and (2) the intent of the proposed ANOPR to provide “speed to power” for large load 
interconnections.  However, as illustrated in these comments, requiring standard large load 
interconnection procedures is unlikely to provide the speed sought by the ANOPR, but instead will 
lead to additional delays and complexities that do not currently exist in MISO.  Moreover, diverting 
industry attention to developing a one-size-fits all approach will likely hinder the very progress 
desired by the Department of Energy and the Commission.   
MISO’s existing processes effectively interconnect large loads, with approximately 17 GW 
of large loads being approved since the 2022 MTEP cycle.  MISO is actively working with 
stakeholders and the industry to continue to enhance its processes.  In lieu of requiring a “one-size 
fits all” mandate, the Commission should the Commission should allow MISO, as well as other 
industry participants, to continue focusing attention on efficiently interconnecting large loads 
pursuant to processes that reflect the unique circumstances of their members, states, stakeholders, 
and transmission systems. 
 
31  Market-to-Market is the process described in the MISO-PJM Interregional Coordination Process and the MISO-
SPP Interregional Coordination Process, whereby MISO and PJM, and separately MISO and SPP, jointly manage 
flowgates near their respective borders through the security constrained economic dispatch of both markets.  
 

--- PAGE 34 ---
34 
Respectfully submitted, 
/s/ Matthew Loftus 
 
Matthew Loftus 
Midcontinent Independent  
System Operator, Inc. 
2985 Ames Crossing Road 
Eagan, Minnesota 55121 
Telephone: (317) 249-5827 
Email: mloftus@misoenergy.org   
 
Dated: November 21, 2025 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 35 ---
35 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
I hereby certify that I have caused to be served this day the foregoing document upon each 
person designated on the official service list compiled by the Secretary in this proceeding.  
Dated this 21st day of November, 2025 in Carmel, Indiana.  
/s/ Cortney Sanders  
Cortney Sanders 
Midcontinent Independent 
System Operator, Inc. 
720 City Center Drive 
Carmel, Indiana 46032 
317-249-5400 
