--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
 
November 21, 2025 
Submitted electronically via FERC Online E-File 
Chairman Laura V. Swett 
Commissioners David Rosner, Lindsay S. See, Judy W. Chang, and David A. LaCerte 
888 First Street, NE 
Washington, DC 40426 
 
RE: 
Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) Interconnection of Large Loads 
to the Interstate Transmission System 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Dear Chairman Swett, Commissioners Rosner, See, Change and LaCerte, 
 
Thank you for seeking input from the public on the ANOPR on the Interconnection of Large 
Loads to the Interstate Transmission System. The Land Trust Alliance (“Alliance”) 
appreciates the opportunity to submit comments on this potential grid reform. 
 
Founded in 1982, the Land Trust Alliance is a nonprofit corporation and national land 
conservation organization based in Washington, D.C., that works to save the places people 
need and love by strengthening land conservation across America. The Alliance represents 
about 950 member land trusts nationwide. Alongside our members, we harness three 
fundamental aspects of the American ethos: volunteerism, community spirit and 
connection to the land.  
 
The Alliance applauds FERC for addressing this critical and highly complex issue. Through 
our work to conserve America’s lands and waters, the Alliance and its 950+ member land 
trusts are keenly aware of the competing land uses for large-scale generation, transmission 
and grid infrastructure projects. Unfortunately, governmental taking of lands, including 
already conserved lands, for the construction of transmission infrastructure, is the most 
frequent means of grid expansion, as opposed to co-location or other less impactful but 
equally effective alternatives. When a taking of conserved lands occurs, critical forest, 
farm, wetland and grassland areas are replaced with transmission infrastructure, resulting 
in a net loss of the benefits of forest, farm, wetlands and grasslands. Conserved lands are 

--- PAGE 2 ---
Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 – Land Trust Alliance Comments - November 21, 2025 
 
2 
 
lands that are owned by a land conservation entity for conservation purposes or by a 
private landowner, including working lands, and are subject to a conservation easement or 
conservation deed.  
 
Conservation easements are a unique legal tool used to keep land in private ownership and 
on the tax rolls while preserving resources vital to the public interest. For private 
landowners, conservation easements are an opportunity to protect land from development 
and to keep working agricultural lands in production. Landowners also receive the added 
benefit of income from the sale of the easement or tax savings from the conveyance of the 
easement. Landowners and their successors retain the right to possess and use the land, 
consistent with the conservation purposes of the easement. Land trusts and government 
holders of conservation easements enter into a voluntary and legally binding agreement 
with the landowner, where the land trust holds a real property interest in that land and 
agrees to perpetually monitor and enforce the conservation easement’s provisions. This 
constitutes a major financial commitment by a land trust. Because of the perpetual and 
costly nature of holding a conservation easement, land trust easement holders don’t enter 
lightly into these agreements. Instead, land trusts have a thorough process for strategic 
conservation planning, evaluating and selecting conservation easements that are 
consistent with the land trust’s conservation priorities and provide public benefit. Through 
this process, land trusts work in partnership with the landowner to identify the important 
resources for protection, understand the landowner’s conservation goals and desired 
future uses of the land, and finally, create a plan that best meets the needs of the land 
trust, the landowner and the land itself. Such a partnership allows landowners to exercise 
their private property rights, ensuring that their land is conserved as they wish while also 
providing benefits like clean air, clean water and food security. 
 
When a taking of conserved lands for transmission occurs, losses include, but are not 
limited to, food and fiber production, drinking water quality, carbon dioxide storage and 
sequestration, and habitat conservation. The taking is made even more egregious by the 
waste of the billions of taxpayer dollars that funded the acquisition of these conservation 
protections.  
 
Fortunately, there are equally effective alternatives available that protect our nation’s 
investment in conserved lands and in lands yet to be conserved but also of high 
conservation, ranching, forestry and agricultural value while also meeting our nation’s 
energy generation and transmission needs. Interconnection procedures for large loads 
should be in accordance with the following purposes, which are discussed in greater detail 
below:  
1. Conserved lands or lands of high conservation or agricultural value yet to be 
conserved are avoided in any generation or transmission infrastructure-related 
siting. 
2. A substantive community outreach process is employed by the facility with the local 
community impacted by the facility, including but not limited to local land trusts. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 – Land Trust Alliance Comments - November 21, 2025 
 
3 
 
3. In the powering of new large load facilities, existing grid transmission capacity is 
maximized such that the need for new transmission line buildout is minimized. 
4. The actual energy performance data of the large load facility is reported to FERC and 
made public. 
5. The large load facility demonstrates its use of water and energy conservation 
measures that, to the greatest extent practicable, minimize energy and water 
consumption, and in turn, minimize the strain on the grid. 
6. Colocation is made a top priority and is paired with renewable energy sources. 
7. Costs for transmission infrastructure upgrades related to large loads, such as data 
centers, are borne by the new large load facility, not pre-existing ratepayers. 
8. Require, as a precondition for interconnection of a large load facility, and until such 
large load facility adds enough new generation capacity to cover its energy demand, 
that such facility must reduce its power use during peak load grid emergencies. 
 
Discussion 
 
a. The taking of conserved lands for transmission infrastructure negates the 
public investment and public benefits in conserved lands.  
 
The expansion of grid infrastructure frequently results in the taking of conserved lands. 
These already conserved lands were selected for protection from development through an 
extensive and strategic conservation planning process targeting conservation priorities and 
the provision of public benefit. Through this strategic process, expert land conservation 
entities known as land trusts have worked with landowners to collectively conserve more 
than 61 million acres of land. These conserved lands have been recognized as critical forest, 
farm, ranch, wetland and grassland areas that provide benefits such as clean air, clean 
drinking water and food, and therefore need protection from conversion to other uses.  
 
The public value of conserved lands is reflected in the billions of dollars in state and federal 
tax incentives and grants for land conservation. Such programs include the U.S. Forest 
Service Forest Legacy Program, U.S. Department of Agriculture Agricultural Conservation 
Easement Program, and the U.S. Department of Defense Readiness and Environmental 
Protection Integration Program. Farmers, ranchers, forest owners and others look to land 
conservation to both preserve their rural way of life and help fund their agricultural 
businesses. 
 
States have also prioritized the preservation of conservation and agricultural lands by 
establishing state tax credit programs and grant programs. Forty-nine states have state 
enabling legislation allowing for the use of conservation easements in response to 
increased alarm at the rate that farmland, working forests and undeveloped lands are being 
converted to other uses. 
 
In addition, Congress enacted Internal Revenue Code Section 170(h) and the 
accompanying Treasury regulations to provide significant tax benefits to individuals who 

--- PAGE 4 ---
Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 – Land Trust Alliance Comments - November 21, 2025 
 
4 
 
donate (or who receive a portion of the purchase price for the conservation easement and 
then donate the remaining value) a qualified conservation easement to tax-exempt 
organizations. These significant public investments in conservation demonstrate that 
protecting conserved lands is a shared priority nationwide.  
 
These public investments create significant public benefits as well as economic and other 
returns, furthering the need to either (a) avoid conserved lands when siting generation or 
transmission infrastructure; or (b) where avoidance is not possible, adequately 
compensate for the damages to the conservation values. Ground disturbance is ongoing 
with transmission facilities and is not limited to the one-time installation. These facilities 
include roads and other infrastructure that significantly impact the ability of ranchers, 
farmers and others to use the land for their agricultural businesses.  
 
The buildout of transmission infrastructure impacts the natural processes of land and 
water that provide direct and indirect benefits to humans, including water quality and 
quantity, pollution control, food production, flood risk reduction, biological diversity, and 
cultural services such as recreation. These benefits were quantified in a study examining 
the ecological and economic benefits of Colorado’s tax credit incentive for donating lands 
for conservation using a conservation easement. The study estimated that in 2022, “the 
total cumulative public benefits of conservation easement [tax] credits to Colorado 
taxpayers is between $35 and $57 billion, or about $20 thousand per acre conserved. . . 
and $43 and $74 billion if recreation and tourism benefits are included (about $25,500 per 
acre conserved). . . .”1  
 
Applying this macro-level valuation methodology to an actual taking of 18.41 acres of 
conserved shortgrass prairie, or grassland/herbaceous in the report, for a transmission line 
in Colorado, results in a total loss of $198,459 in ecosystem services provided by that 
conserved prairie. These losses are even greater when damages specific to the 
conservation values of the underlying property are evaluated. In a separate taking of similar 
acreage for transmission infrastructure, the resource economist hired by the entity 
responsible for protecting the property’s conservation values concluded that damages to 
the conservation values would be between $2-4 million because of the property’s specific 
and unique attributes, including the presence of black footed ferrets, a federally listed 
endangered species.    
 
To protect conserved lands, their conservation values, the livelihoods derived from the land 
by the farm and ranch families, and the public investment therein, the Alliance urges FERC 
to implement rulemaking that avoids siting generation or transmission infrastructure on 
conserved lands. When avoidance is not possible, such projects should include funding for 
minimizing and offsetting damage to conserved lands; landowners should be paid in full for 
 
1 Seidl, A., Crossett, C., Greenwell, A, Bennett, D., and Menefee, M., 2023. Public return to private lands 
conservation in Colorado: The Conservation Easement Tax Credit Program. Colorado State University, Fort 
Collins, Colorado. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 – Land Trust Alliance Comments - November 21, 2025 
 
5 
 
the disruption that the land loss causes; and FERC should mandate that all steps to 
minimize ongoing damage be taken. 
 
b. FERC can best use its authority to support the deployment of large-scale 
transmission projects by identifying and advancing projects where public 
opposition is likely to be lessened.  
 
To minimize public opposition and, in turn, accelerate large-scale transmission projects, 
FERC should seek to identify and advance transmission projects that avoid conserved 
lands and yet-to-be-conserved lands of high conservation or agricultural value. To ensure 
that these lands are not taken by condemnation and that the public investments and public 
benefits in conserved lands are preserved, land trusts are charged with ensuring the 
perpetual protection of conserved lands. The Alliance’s 950+ member land trusts have 
voluntarily agreed to follow industry best practices for operating a land trust legally, 
ethically and in the public interest. These are known as Land Trust Standards and Practices 
(“Standards”). Standard 11(I) sets forth the guiding principles for defending conserved 
properties from condemnation. This Standard guides a land trust to take whatever steps 
are necessary to mitigate harm to the conservation values. The guidance to Standard 11(I) 
advises land trusts to defend the conserved lands in their portfolio and to take early action. 
Because of this guiding principle to defend and take early action, land trust members and 
affiliates are obligated to oppose transmission projects that will impact the lands they own 
and manage, especially when the degree or magnitude of the impact is not minimized or 
offset through the provision of comparable substitute conservation lands. For these 
reasons, the Alliance urges FERC to identify and advance projects that avoid conserved 
lands, which in turn will reduce public opposition to large-scale transmission projects.  
 
c. FERC can optimize the existing grid by identifying and advancing projects that 
maximize the transmission potential of the existing grid without compromising 
public investment in conservation land. 
 
Maximizing the transmission potential of the existing grid will improve grid distribution 
efficiency and meet demand growth while also minimizing harm to conserved lands and 
lands not yet conserved but of high conservation and agricultural value from the buildout of 
new transmission infrastructure. This is also in keeping with the president’s “Winning the 
Race: America’s AI Action Plan,” which specifically prioritizes optimizing existing grid 
resources as much as possible.2  
 
 
2 “This involves implementing strategies to enhance the efficiency and performance of the transmission 
system. The United States must explore solutions like advanced grid management technologies and 
upgrades to power lines that can increase the amount of electricity transmitted along existing routes. 
Furthermore, the United States should investigate new and novel ways for large power consumers to manage 
their power consumption during critical grid periods to enhance reliability and unlock additional power on the 
system.” Winning the AI Race: America’s AI Action Plan (Executive Office of the President of the U.S., July 
2025). 

--- PAGE 6 ---
Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 – Land Trust Alliance Comments - November 21, 2025 
 
6 
 
 
The Alliance encourages FERC to support the re-conductoring of existing transmission 
lines with higher-performance wires, which can rapidly increase transmission capacity at a 
low cost. Advanced conductors have been shown to reduce transmission losses between 
10-30%3, ensuring more of the energy we produce is provided to consumers. The Alliance 
also encourages FERC to support other ways to maximize the transmission potential of the 
existing grid, including grid-enhancing technologies, storage as transmission, conservation 
methods at the user end, realistic need projections and identifying underused 
interconnections. 
 
In addition, the Alliance recommends the co-location of large energy users, such as data 
centers, together with existing energy generation sources to minimize the need for new 
transmission buildout. Co-location is a fiscally responsible approach as it both avoids 
harm to conserved lands and minimizes the costs of new transmission buildout. Where 
new energy generation sources are needed, the Alliance recommends the co-location of 
large-scale energy uses, such as data centers, with renewable energy and battery energy 
storage systems. Such siting will likely accelerate the speed of meeting our nation’s energy 
demand, as renewable energy and storage are often quicker and cheaper to site and 
construct than other energy sources. As such, co-location of large energy users with onsite 
renewable energy generation will allow developers to meet the energy and data needs of 
America quickly and efficiently.  
 
Other alternatives to maximizing existing grid resources include further FERC support for 
initiatives spurring the use of renewable energy-powered microgrids and virtual power 
plants to increase grid reliability and resilience while also allowing data centers to come 
online more quickly.  
 
d. FERC rulemaking should financially incentivize collaborative efforts 
between transmission infrastructure planners and developers and local 
communities, including land trusts.  
 
It is widely acknowledged that “[l]ocal efforts to oppose large infrastructure projects [are] 
increasing as, among other things, the country becomes more densely populated and land 
use assumes greater and greater importance. Proposed transmission lines in particular are 
frequently delayed for months or years as a result of public opposition, driving up costs to 
developers and, ultimately, to consumers.”4 FERC should develop rulemaking on how 
developers should meaningfully engage with the public on proposed AI data centers and 
related transmission infrastructure to address community concerns and reduce the costs 
and timelines for projects to be completed. 
 
3 SUPPORTING ADVANCED CONDUCTOR DEPLOYMENT: BARRIERS AND POLICY SOLUTIONS 
https://www.2035report.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/5.3-Reconductoring-policy-report.pdf  
4 Americans for a Clean Energy Grid, Recommended Siting Practices for Electric Transmission Developers 
(2023) https://cleanenergygrid.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/Recommended-Siting-Practices-for-
Electric-Transmission-Developers-February-2023-Americans-for-a-Clean-Energy-Grid.pdf . 

--- PAGE 7 ---
Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 – Land Trust Alliance Comments - November 21, 2025 
 
7 
 
 
More specifically, FERC should require or incentivize transmission infrastructure planners 
and developers to reach out to land trusts serving the communities they identified for 
development. Land trusts welcome the opportunity to share their extensive knowledge of 
the location of conserved properties and lands that are priorities for future conservation 
acquisition. Land trusts, as experts in reading the landscape, could facilitate the finding of 
an alternative siting location as well as assist in identifying mutually agreeable offset 
measures, such as funding for the acquisition of alternative conservation lands of 
equivalent quality and type. 
 
e. Through its rulemaking, FERC should require or financially incentivize large 
energy users, such as data centers, to monitor, report and disclose energy 
performance data such that grid planning is properly informed.  
 
The transmission planning process begins with the fundamental question of whether a new 
line is needed. To understand the extent of and location of grid expansion needs, 
transmission planners first need accurate, realistic (not inflated) projections of load growth 
from large users such as data centers. Overestimating load growth can lead to excessive 
transmission infrastructure, increases in ratepayers’ electric bills and unnecessary harm to 
conserved lands, as discussed above. An uninformed planning process will result in a 
haphazard transmission infrastructure siting process, slowing down the goals of FERC. 
  
One of the challenges to the accuracy of energy forecasting is a lack of transparency by 
large energy users, notably data centers, which currently provide little to no data on actual 
energy consumption. FERC can help with increasing the accuracy of energy forecasting by 
requiring large energy users like data centers to provide FERC with a baseline of current 
energy use, information that is then made publicly available. Without data on the actual 
energy usage of large energy users like data centers, grid planners can't determine what 
level of grid expansion is needed and where. 
 
This uncertainty in energy forecasting is even more significant for data centers. This is 
demonstrated by London Economics International LLC (“LEI”) in its 2025 report, 
Uncertainty and upward bias are inherent in data center electricity demand projections.  
 
In this report, LEI LLC concluded that: 
 
[F]orecasts of electricity demand stemming from data center growth are beset with 
uncertainty — the extent and pace of data center demand growth remain highly 
uncertain, and the specific locations even more difficult to predict. For the reasons 
outlined in this report, LEI believes that not all the electricity demand growth 
associated with new data centers projected for the United States or for any given 
individual jurisdiction in the United States will necessarily materialize. 
 

--- PAGE 8 ---
Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 – Land Trust Alliance Comments - November 21, 2025 
 
8 
 
The potential for overestimating electricity demand from new data centers has 
important implications for evaluating utility plans for generation and transmission 
capacity expansion, and in some cases, related proposals for new interstate gas 
pipeline infrastructure to serve new gas-fired electricity generation. Currently, many 
utilities are projecting substantial growth in electricity demand from potential data 
centers within their territories. These demand projections in turn can drive a 
significant portion of the utilities’ generation capacity expansion plans, and, in some 
cases, prompt a projected need for additional firm transportation capacity on 
interstate gas pipelines. However, if the projected data center load fails to fully 
materialize, then the cost of these assets — whether power plants or pipeline 
infrastructure — would be borne by other utility customers. 
 
Based on its analysis, LEI concludes that data center electricity demand projections 
remain highly uncertain and currently reflect a bias to overestimating growth in the 
number of data centers that will be built, and therefore also overestimating future 
electricity demand.  
 
LEI concluded that current data center load growth estimates are even more unreliable 
because the estimates don’t align with the reality of the global supply shortage of the 
semiconductor chips needed to operate a data center. To reach this conclusion, LEI “tallied 
projections of US data center electric load growth from independent system operators 
(“ISOs”), regional transmission organizations (“RTOs”), and balancing areas (“BAs”) 
covering about 77% of US electric load. . . . LEI found that, if the ISO/RTO/BA demand 
outlooks are taken at face value, the US would need 90% of incremental global supplies 
from 2025-2030. This is simply unlikely to occur. The United States currently buys less than 
50% of global semiconductor chips annually, and other countries are also seeing strong 
growth in data center development. 
 
“This result indicates that growth in data center electric load in the United States will fall 
short of the ISO/RTO/BA tally, because there would not be enough AI chip capacity in the 
world to meet this demand. It supports the anecdotal evidence that data center developers 
are duplicating requests for electric interconnection.”5 
 
To prepare for electricity demand growth, FERC needs accurate load forecasts to guide its 
decision-making. For these reasons, the Alliance recommends FERC-led initiatives that 
result in industry disclosure of its data on energy use. These could include reporting 
incentives and requirements or stronger partnerships for better knowledge sharing. This 
will help to resolve the transmission planning obstacles that follow from the current data 
gaps on energy use.  
 
 
5 LEO Press Release, LEI Finds Headline US Data Center Energy Demand Could Not Be Supported By 
Projected Global Chip Supplies, https://www.londoneconomics.com/lei-finds-headline-us-data-center-
energy-demand-could-not-be-supported-by-projected-global-chip-supplies/ (July 8, 2025) 

--- PAGE 9 ---
Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 – Land Trust Alliance Comments - November 21, 2025 
 
9 
 
f. The Alliance recommends that FERC give priority in its rulemaking to 
transmission infrastructure projects connected to, or that will connect to, large-
scale energy users who employ water and energy conservation measures that 
to the greatest extent practicable, minimize energy and water consumption, 
and in turn, minimize the strain on the grid.   
 
While uncertainty remains as to just how much electricity will be needed to power large 
energy users, there is general agreement that load demand growth will be significant. A 
single AI data center, for example, can require 50-100+ MW, enough energy to power 
approximately 16,400 homes.6 FERC can help reduce energy demand strain on the grid 
through rulemaking that incentivizes or requires the implementation of initiatives and 
innovative technologies that increase data center energy and water use efficiency. 
Reducing energy demand reduces transmission costs, ratepayer costs and harm to 
conserved lands. Co-location with the large user would further reduce opposition and 
harm and reduce the costs of transmission and construction, which benefits all 
concerned. 
 
To do this, the Alliance urges FERC to set ambitious goals for energy-efficient AI algorithms 
and software and to collaborate with the private sector to realize these goals. In addition, 
efficiencies in water use will lead to energy efficiencies and, in turn, less strain on the grid. 
For example, the cooling systems that help power large energy users are ripe for innovation 
in water usage efficiency and energy-intensive wastewater treatment. There are 
tremendous opportunities for federal and private-sector collaboration on research, 
development and innovation of water and energy-efficient systems.   
 
By increasing energy and water use efficiency, not only will the operations of large load 
facilities such as AI data centers be more cost-effective and maintain America’s global 
competitiveness, but it will also lessen the load on the nation’s energy needs and 
transmission grid, passing savings along to all American consumers.  
 
g. The Alliance recommends that costs for transmission infrastructure 
upgrades related to large loads, such as data centers, should be borne by the 
new large load facility and not by pre-existing ratepayers. 
 
Placing the costs of upgrading transmission infrastructure on new large load users, such as 
data centers, and not on pre-existing customers, will likely reduce strain on the grid, as 
large load facilities would be incentivized to minimize their energy consumption. Less 
strain on the grid reduces the need for new transmission infrastructure, in turn protecting 
conserved lands from future condemnation actions. This also protects pre-existing 
ratepayers who are already struggling with rapidly increasing utility bills.  
 
6 IEA (2024), What the data centre and AI boom could mean for the energy sector, IEA, Paris 
https://www.iea.org/commentaries/what-the-data-centre-and-ai-boom-could-mean-for-the-energy-sector , 
Licence: CC BY 4.0. 

--- PAGE 10 ---
Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 – Land Trust Alliance Comments - November 21, 2025 
 
10 
 
 
 
 
h. The Alliance recommends that FERC require, as a precondition for 
interconnection of a large load facility, and until such large load facility adds 
enough new generation capacity to cover its energy demand, such facility must 
reduce its power use during peak load grid emergencies. 
 
To further capitalize on existing transmission capacity and reduce the need for excessive, 
costly, and time and land-consuming grid expansion, FERC should require any new large 
load facility to reduce power use during peak load grid emergencies until that user has 
added enough generation capacity to cover its own energy demand. These new large loads 
consume massive amounts of energy that is rapidly outpacing existing grid infrastructure. 
“Power used by data centers in advanced stages of planning in Pennsylvania, for example, 
jumped more than 40% to 20.5 gigawatts in the third quarter, up from 14.4 gigawatts 
previously, according to the utility PPL. That’s equivalent to the power consumption of 
about 17 million U.S. homes.”7  
 
Demand flexibility allows for optimization of the existing grid and minimizes the need for 
new transmission buildout. This is highlighted in a recent report published by the Nicholas 
Institute for Energy at Duke University, which concludes that “the integration of flexible 
loads offers a promising, near-term strategy for addressing structural transformations in 
the US electric power system. By utilizing existing system headroom, regulators and market 
participants can expedite the accommodation of new loads, optimize resource utilization, 
and support the broader goals of reliability, affordability, and sustainability.” 8 Requiring 
demand flexibility is also consistent with the White House’s AI Action Plan, which 
recommends policy actions to “optimize existing grid resources as much as possible. . . . 
[including] new and novel ways for large power consumers to manage their power 
consumption during critical grid periods”.9 Lastly, demand flexibility is feasible for large 
loads as demonstrated by tech companies like Google entering into new utility agreements 
that incorporate demand flexibility. 
 
 
 
 
 
7 Kimball, Spencer, Skyrocketing Electricity Prices Fuel Political Backlash Against Tech Sector’s AI Data 
Centers (Nov. 12, 2025) https://www.cnbc.com/2025/11/12/electricity-prices-data-center-ai-new-jersey-
virginia-midterm-election.html  
8 Norris, T. H., T. Profeta, D. Patino-Echeverri, and A. Cowie-Haskell. 2025. Rethinking Load Growth: Assessing 
the Potential for Integration of Large Flexible Loads in US Power Systems. NI R 25-01. Durham, NC: Nicholas 
Institute for Energy, Environment & Sustainability, Duke University. 
https://nicholasinstitute.duke.edu/publications/rethinking-load-growth 
9 Winning the Race: America’s AI Action Plan (White House July 2025)( https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-
content/uploads/2025/07/Americas-AI-Action-Plan.pdf )  

--- PAGE 11 ---
Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 – Land Trust Alliance Comments - November 21, 2025 
 
11 
 
 
 
Conclusion 
 
We applaud FERC for addressing this complex topic and urge it to protect the public 
investment in conserved lands through the recommendations set forth herein. We also 
welcome any opportunity to meet with you and FERC staff to discuss this further. Thank 
you for your attention to this matter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Lori Faeth 
Senior Director of Government Relations 
Land Trust Alliance 
 
 
 
 
 
