--- PAGE 1 ---
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to 
 
) 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
The Interstate Transmission System  
) 
 
 
REPLY COMMENTS OF 
AMERICANS FOR A CLEAN ENERGY GRID 
(December 5, 2025) 
 
 
Initial comments in this docket reinforced what the Commission already knows: rapid 
interconnection of new resources needs new transmission. Interconnecting both load and 
generation – to constrained transmission system will not be effective unless significant new grid 
infrastructure is built, and those new resources must be incorporated into forward-looking 
planning. Pursuant to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (“FERC” or “Commission”) 
Notice Inviting Comments1 and subsequent Notice Granting Extension of Time to submit 
comments2 in the above-captioned docket regarding the proposed Advance Notice of Proposed 
Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) that the U.S. Department of Energy released on October 23, 2025, 
pursuant to section 403 of the Department of Energy Organization Act,3 Americans for a Clean 
Energy Grid (“ACEG”) is pleased to submit these reply comments. ACEG is a non-profit group 
representing a diverse coalition of stakeholders—including utilities, hyper-scalers, independent 
transmission and generation developers, and non-profit groups—all focused on the need to 
expand, integrate, and modernize the high-capacity grid in the United States.4 
Fundamentally, when managed correctly, interconnecting large loads to the grid is a win-
win for all customers; the transmission system that serves everyone benefits from additional 
investment: new costs can be shared among a larger customer base in ways that will mitigate, 
 
1 Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Notice Inviting Comments, 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 27, 2025). 
2 Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Notice Granting Extension of 
Time, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Nov. 7, 2025). 
3 42 U.S.C. § 7173. 
4 These comments do not necessarily reflect the views of individual ACEG supporters. 

--- PAGE 2 ---
and in some cases reduce, costs for existing customers, and large loads gain the resilience and 
reliability associated with grid interconnection. Initial comments to the ANOPR proposed to 
accelerate the interconnection of data centers and other large loads to ensure national security 
and unlock economic opportunities. We strongly support deployment of infrastructure to meet 
these goals, and are mindful of the need to implement the proposals in the ANOPR in a way that 
addresses the affordability impacts on customers and ensures harmony with state and federal 
jurisdiction over electric facilities and services.  
A review of the substantial record in this docket confirms broad agreement on these 
points. Commenters representing utilities, hyperscalers, public power, regional grid operators, 
and industrial customers have all highlighted the same fundamental reality: the grid cannot 
support a new era of high‑density, high‑demand loads without a corresponding expansion in 
transmission capacity.  
 
I. 
The Greatest Need for Successful Large-Load Interconnection Is More Regional and 
Interregional Transmission 
 
Many commenters underscored that interconnecting large loads requires significant 
upgrades to the existing transmission grid. These upgrades are often not local or incremental; 
instead, they involve broader buildout to alleviate congestion, increase transfer capability, and 
maintain reliability under stressed conditions. The Data Center Coalition said it well: 
The core challenge facing the electric system today is not merely procedural delay 
in generator interconnection studies, but the lack of sufficient transmission 
infrastructure and forward planning to accommodate new load and new 
generation in a timely manner. Generator interconnection queues have grown into 
multi-year bottlenecks … because the transmission system lacks sufficient 
unencumbered headroom to integrate these resources. In many cases, projects 
cannot proceed because needed network upgrades were not planned, permitted, or 
built in advance. The interconnection backlog is thus a symptom of a deeper and 
more structural issue: the grid was not expanded or modernized at the pace that 
changing system needs require. The lack of supply to meet today’s demand is not 
a failure of market interest – rather a failure of infrastructure. … A planning 
construct designed for marginal load variation is no longer adequate when load is 
materializing at utility-scale magnitude and on industrial timelines.5 
 
5 Data Center Coalition Comments at 8-9. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
Pointing out that several RTOs are warning of potential reliability issues, the Data Center 
Coalition noted that these warnings “are evidence that transmission and interconnection 
infrastructure has not kept pace with economic growth or system reliability needs.”6  
While much has been made of the value of co-location and curtailment flexibility – and 
certainly these are key tools for achieving speed to market and mitigating broader impacts of 
these large loads – the long-term goal of many of these customers is to be grid-connected in 
order to ensure the reliability and resilience that these facilities need.7  One data center developer 
noted that they would pursue any model that would allow them to get up and running quickly, 
but that they and their “customers prefer to develop grid-connected sites to promote reliability 
and resilience to ensure operational continuity for its data center customers and to promote the 
efficient and secure operation of the grid.”8 
 
II. 
Transmission Planning Must Proactively Include Anticipated Large Loads 
 
A consistent theme in comments is the need to bolster transmission planning is the 
inadequacy of the current reactive approach to load‑driven upgrades. Under existing rules, 
transmission providers generally respond to load requests only once an interconnection 
application is submitted. This reactive structure has left many regions unprepared for the scale 
and pace of emerging demand. AEP prioritized this issue in noting that the current  
siloed approach to transmission planning … will not deliver infrastructure fast 
enough to ensure the United States continues to be a leader in artificial 
intelligence and is able to grow its manufacturing base. Widespread adoption of 
proactive transmission planning will better anticipate and plan for load and 
generation in an efficient and cost-effective manner. 9 
 
 
6 Id. at 9 (citing NERC and RTO reports on declining reserve margins, elevated risks of emergency 
actions, and reliability risks driven by transmission constraints). 
7 Comments of Shell Energy North America (US), L.P. Comments at 3,  
8 Comments of Vantage Data Centers at 2. 
9 AEP Comments at 4-5. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
This requires robust forecasting at the regional level to ensure planning is accurate and timely. 
ClearPath echoed this need for coordinated interconnection studies of load and generators along 
with transmission planning in their comments:  
Proactively planning transmission can increase transparency on the cost and 
timing of interconnection and identify cost-effective transmission solutions. In 
particular, when transmission is proactively planned, the costs for interconnection 
are provided to interconnection customers upfront, and developers have greater 
clarity on when they can interconnect, reducing uncertainty and the speculative 
behavior that increases queue timelines.10 
 
Customers viewed this as a temporal challenge – some reforms may be appropriate only in the 
short-run, but “regulations that are squarely focused on transmission grid transparency, load 
forecasting, and grid efficiency could be permanent reforms.”11 Google added there is a need  
“to plan better in order to develop a transmission grid that can support the nation’s 
digital infrastructure needs. … Doing so requires a holistic transmission planning 
process that harmonizes both new load interconnection with new generation 
supply. … transmission planners must have a realistic picture of the generators 
and the large loads planning to interconnect to the transmission grid if they are to 
plan the grid in an efficient, cost-effective, and reliable manner.”12 
 
The Electricity Customer Alliance reiterated this point, noting that, “[c]apturing this opportunity 
requires, among other things, more holistic transmission planning to better account for these 
large loads and associated generation in development to serve them and identify the most 
economically efficient transmission expansion opportunities.”13 MISO cited their reforms as a 
strength in meeting the challenge: “Transmission and generation are critical enablers to facilitate 
the interconnections of large loads. MISO has updated and enhanced its processes across the 
transmission and resource planning horizons to efficiently support large load additions and 
improve the integration of large loads.”14 
 
 
10 ClearPath comments at 5, noting recent reforms by CAISO on its interconnection process and SPP in its 
Consolidated Planning Process. 
11 Joint Comments of the Industrial Customer Organizations at 21. 
12 Google comments at 3-4. 
13 Comments of Electricity Customer Alliance at 2. 
14 Comments of the Midcontinent Independent System Operator Inc. at 6. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
III. 
Strong Alignment Across Commenters: Transmission Expansion Is Essential 
 
Across the docket, numerous parties made clear that enhancing the interconnection 
process alone will not be enough; expanding transmission, at scale, is imperative. As the Data 
Center Coalition put it, interconnecting large loads “must be understood as a core transmission-
infrastructure priority – one that modernizes and expands the grid at the scale required, not 
merely streamlines procedural steps.”15 Iron Mountain echoed this sentiment in providing that it 
“supports federal and state initiatives to align generation and transmission and build new 
resources.”16 Exelon, as well, stated, “Significant new generation, transmission, and distribution 
infrastructure will be required to reliably interconnect new large loads.”17 Microsoft added that it 
“recognizes that the expansion of data centers performing cloud computing and artificial 
intelligence (“AI”) operations necessitates significant investment in electric transmission and 
generation capacity ….”18  
Customers, who will bear the cost, agree: new transmission infrastructure is critical to 
meeting large loads and enhancing the grid overall. The Load Flexibility Parties note that, in 
addition to load flexibility and other quickly deployable solutions, “new generation and 
transmission infrastructure will be part of the solution.”19   Where new technologies that make 
better use of the grid, they are essential, “[i]n addition to new transmission lines,” to integrate 
new large loads.20 Even the Large Public Power Council, with appropriate caveats about ensuring 
that customers are protected from inappropriate cost-shifting, states that it “supports expansion 
of the electric grid in order to enable data center growth and AI industry development.”21  
 
 
 
 
15 Data Center Coalition Comments at 10. 
16 Iron Mountain Data Centers at 2. 
17 Exelon comments at 3.  
18 Initial comments of Microsoft Inc. at 1. 
19 Joint Comment of the Load Flexibility Parties at 2. 
20 Comments of American Transmission Company LLC at 3. 
21 Comments of the Large Public Power Council at 2. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
IV. 
Recommendations for Commission Action 
 
While this docket is still in the early stages, several recommendations stand out and have 
broad support:  
• Require improved regional forecasting for significant loads (75 MW or more). 
• Ensure cost recovery and cost-allocation mechanisms that protect existing customers 
while allowing large loads to participate fairly in – and benefit from – the broader 
grid.  
• Direct proactively planned multi-value high-capacity transmission as part of the 
solution, whether through existing mechanisms or robust Order No. 1920 compliance. 
 
The Commission sits at a pivotal moment. The U.S. economy is undergoing a structural 
transformation in how and where electricity is consumed, and the transmission system must meet 
the moment. No procedural refinement or queue improvement can substitute for the foundational 
need for more regional and interregional transmission nor for planning frameworks that 
anticipate, rather than react to, large-load growth. 
The record in this docket shows that Commission action is needed. The Commission has 
both the authority and the responsibility to ensure that the nation’s grid is prepared for sustained 
economic expansion. By expediting the buildout of regional and interregional transmission 
planned to meet the needs of new large loads, the Commission can support reliable service and 
enable economic growth while ensuring that rates remain just and reasonable and customers are 
protected. We look forward to working with the Commission to attain these goals. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
/s/ Christina Hayes 
 
Christina Hayes 
Executive Director 
Americans for a Clean Energy Grid 
10 G Street NE #440 
Washington, D.C. 20002 
