--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
R E L I A B I L I T Y  |  R E S I L I E N C E  |  S E C U R I T Y  
P O W E R I N G  T O D A Y .  P R O T E C T I N G  T O M O R R O W .  
March 20, 2026 
 
The Honorable Laura Swett, Chairman  
The Honorable David Rosner, Commissioner  
The Honorable Lindsay See, Commissioner  
The Honorable Judy Chang, Commissioner  
The Honorable David LaCerte, Commissioner  
 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  
888 First Street, N.E.  
Washington, D.C. 20426  
 
Re: Docket No. RM26-4-000   
 
Dear Chairman Swett and Commissioners Rosner, See, Chang, and LaCerte: 
 
We are entering a period of load growth unprecedented in recent memory, driven by data centers that support 
our daily lives and advance North America’s leadership in the deployment of artiﬁcial intelligence.  The North 
American Electric Reliability Corporation (“NERC”) recognizes the urgency we are facing.  We need signiﬁcant 
investment in infrastructure and energy resources to meet our transforming resource and energy needs.  At 
the same time, we must stay laser-focused on reliability, informed by NERC’s analysis of grid events in Virginia 
and Texas, where large data center loads have responded to, and ampliﬁed, grid instability.1  We understand 
we must quickly secure the reliable contribution of these loads to the future system, especially given the 
lessons learned related to the integration of inverter-based resources.  As a result, NERC is currently processing 
many tasks in parallel to address large load integration, rather than in sequence as we normally would.  We 
believe this is the most appropriate way to enable data center growth and reliable integration with the grid. 
 
In October of 2025, the Department of Energy (“DOE”) issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking 
Ensuring the Timely and Orderly Interconnection of Large Loads2 that directed the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission (the “Commission”) to initiate proceedings to enable the interconnection of large loads.  The 
Commission issued a Notice Inviting Comments,3 and in November, NERC submitted a ﬁling to support the 
Commission’s consideration of how to best ensure that the Bulk Power System (“BPS”) is prepared to integrate 
large loads in a way that sustains reliability.4  NERC included a timeline for its large load action plan. 
 
NERC respectfully submits this supplement to: (i) update the Commission on NERC activities over the last 
quarter; and (ii) provide NERC’s accelerated large load action plan.  Under the accelerated large load action 
plan, NERC intends to ﬁle revised registry criteria and Reliability Standards on or before December 31, 2026.  
NERC also plans a Level 3 Alert in early May of 2026 to urge essential actions in the interim. 
 
1  
Incident Review Considering Simultaneous Voltage-Sensitive Load Reductions (Jan. 8, 2025), https://www.nerc.com/globalassets/our-
work/reports/event-reports/incident_review_large_load_loss.pdf. 
2  
Ensuring the Timely and Orderly Interconnection of Large Loads, Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 
27, 2025) [hereinafter ANOPR]; 42 U.S.C. § 7173(a). 
3  
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Notice Inviting Comments, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 27, 2025). 
4  
Comments of the N. Am. Elec. Reliability Corp. in Response to Notice Inviting Comments, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Nov. 21, 2025). 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
 
 
2 
This expedited, multi-pronged approach is based on NERC reliability assessments and stakeholder feedback.  
In February of 2026, NERC held a large load technical conference to discuss crucial questions and ﬁndings, and 
to continue building meaningful engagement with stakeholders on this issue.  The technical conference 
included NERC’s presentation on the results of January responses to NERC’s Level 2 Alert (which provided 
recommendations for large load integration).  After hearing from participants, NERC concluded that it would 
accelerate the large load action plan and initiate eﬀorts to update its registry criteria and develop initial 
Reliability Standards to include large loads.  These updates would provide certainty on which parties should be 
subject to NERC requirements (per updated registry criteria) and what those parties should be required to do 
(per updated Reliability Standards).  Additional Reliability Standard revisions are also anticipated in the future 
under NERC’s stakeholder process.   
 
In addition, on March 11, 2026, NERC’s Reliability and Security Technical Committee (the “RSTC”) approved the 
Large Loads Working Group’s (“LLWG”) second whitepaper, Assessment of Gaps in Existing Practices, 
Requirements, and Reliability Standards for Emerging Large Loads.5  The ﬁndings in this whitepaper, as well as 
the public report on the Level 2 Alert, further reﬂect the need for registry criteria and Reliability Standard 
updates.  The Level 2 Alert report also underscored the need for a Level 3 Alert to urge essential actions and 
provide guidance while registry criteria and Reliability Standards are modiﬁed.6  A Level 3 Alert and guidance 
materials throughout 2026 via NERC and its subgroups will ensure that risk mitigation starts right away, while 
the appropriate regulatory process works to deliver the necessary updates to registration and standards. 
 
Finally, on March 18, 2026, the NERC Standards Committee (“SC”) appointed a standard drafting team, 
accepted a Standard Authorization Request (“SAR”) for computational load, and authorized the SAR for 
posting.7  The SAR proposes Glossary updates for computational load and computational load entities along 
with a new Reliability Standard focused on essential actions for integrating large computational loads in the 
near term.     
 
The past quarter has primed NERC and stakeholders for redoubled eﬀort to address the reliability needs 
associated with large load integration.  NERC is committed to identifying and mitigating risks to the BPS so that 
the grid continues to support the North American economy and innovation.  The following depicts the 
accelerated large load action plan with stakeholder feedback each step of the way. 
 
 
5  
NERC Large Loads Working Group, Assessment of Gaps in Existing Practices, Requirements, and Reliability Standards for Emerging Large 
Loads (March 2026), https://www.nerc.com/globalassets/our-work/guidelines/reliability/white-paper---assessment-of-gaps.pdf. 
6  
Aggregated Report on NERC Level 2 Industry Recommendation: Large Load Interconnection, Study, Commissioning, and Operations 
(March 
2026) 
https://www.nerc.com/globalassets/programs/bpsa/alerts/2025/aggregated-report-level-2-large-load-interconnection-study-
commissioning-and-operations.pdf.  
7  
NERC Standards Committee, Meeting Agenda (Item 5 Reliability Standards to Address Computational Load - Phase I Standard 
Authorization 
Request) 
(Mar. 
18, 
2026), 
https://www.nerc.com/globalassets/who-we-are/standing-
committees/sc/20260318_sc_agenda_package.pdf. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
 
 
3 
 
 
*NERC will maintain an up to date version on its Large Load Action Plan Webpage at 
https://www.nerc.com/initiatives/large-loads-action-plan 
 
NERC, in partnership with the Regional Entities, is committed to doing our part as the Electric Reliability 
Organization to enable the rapid growth of these key loads in a manner that preserves—and potentially 
enhances—reliability for all.  The accelerated large load action plan would achieve initial level setting by year-
end.   
 
While the pace of development puts pressure on all of us, I want to assure you that NERC and the Regional 
Entities are working at the pace necessary—which at times can be uncomfortable—to meet the moment and 
enable the interconnection of large data centers in a manner that preserves reliability.  NERC expresses its 
sincere appreciation to the governmental authorities, large load participants, utilities, other stakeholders, and 
public as we work together to ensure reliable operation of the BPS.  We look forward to working with the 
Commission and stakeholders, and welcome any feedback that you or your teams may have throughout the 
process. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
James B. Robb 
President and Chief Executive Oﬃcer 
North American Electric Reliability Corporation 
1401 H Street NW, Suite 410 
Washington, DC 20005 
