--- PAGE 1 ---
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate  
 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Transmission System  
 
COMMENTS OF EDF POWER SOLUTIONS, INC.  
 
 
Pursuant to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (Commission) October 27, 
2025 Notice Inviting Comments, EDF power solutions, Inc. (EDF)1 submits these comments in 
support of the Department of Energy’s (DOE) Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking 
(ANOPR) requesting that FERC establish standardized interconnection procedures and 
agreements for large loads seeking to interconnect to the transmission system.2 
I. 
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS 
Standardizing the interconnection of new large loads and hybrid facilities is a crucial 
and welcome step that will help meet the challenges of serving new large loads across the 
country.  New large loads and hybrid facility structures are not one-size-fits-all.  They can take 
many forms, including structures with operational flexibility that can provide a host of benefits 
to the transmission system, and some that have less operational flexibility and thereby place 
more demands on the transmission system.  EDF supports the DOE Secretary’s request for the 
 
1 EDF develops, builds, operates, and manages renewable energy projects throughout North America.  
As a market-leading independent power producer and service provider for over 35 years, EDF delivers 
grid-scale power, including wind (onshore and offshore), solar photovoltaic, and storage projects; 
distribution-scale power, including solar and storage, and asset optimization.  EDF also provides 
technical, operational, and commercial expertise to maximize performance of generating projects.  EDF 
is an active participant in interconnection-related policy discussions and rulemaking proceedings, 
including generation and load interconnection reform efforts.   
2 Letter from DOE Secretary Wright to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, dated Oct. 23, 
2025, attaching the Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, Ensuring Timely and Orderly 
Interconnection of Large Loads.  

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
 
Commission to establish a uniform, open access framework for large load and hybrid facilities 
to interconnect to the transmission system that does not infringe on the jurisdiction of the 
relevant state regulatory authorities.   
To maximize the benefits of this opportunity, the Commission should adopt a flexible, 
performance-based framework that (1) recognizes the diversity within the large load industries 
(e.g., AI, crypto mining, hydrogen, e-fuels, and carbon capture, utilization and storage 
(CCUS)); (2) encourages “grid-light” development structures, such as hybrid facilities that put 
minimal stress on the grid, and avoids inadvertently penalizing innovative co-located load 
configuration models; and (3) addresses much needed reforms to the Commission’s Public 
Utility Holding Company Act (PUHCA) regulations3 to allow independent power producers, 
such as exempt wholesale generators (EWGs), to make direct sales to large loads (in states 
where it is allowed) without losing PUHCA exemptions for upstream owners. 
While these PUHCA and EWG challenges have not received much attention in the data 
center dialog thus far, EDF believes it is an important consideration that, once it is addressed, 
will reduce impediments to powering large loads and ensuring the reliability of the bulk power 
system.  Independent power producers (IPPs) are experts in managing the challenges of running 
power plants and are better suited than the data center companies themselves to own and 
operate the co-located generation that supplies power to the data centers.  However, regulatory 
limitations on EWGs prevent IPPs from making direct sales to hybrid facility load.  This can be 
a significant impediment to data center development, by causing delay, increasing costs 
unnecessarily, and sometimes even pressing large load developers to seek other locations, 
which can cause localities to lose investment opportunities.  PUHCA reforms would eliminate 
 
3 18 C.F.R. Part 366. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
 
the need for IPPs to “sleeve” power sales through the incumbent utility (or other authorized 
retail electric provider) in the hybrid facility context in states that otherwise allow direct sales 
to large loads.  States that incentivize bilateral transactions between IPPs and large loads will 
see greater industrial development in their state, which could put downward pressure on 
ratepayer energy costs.  
Regarding the principles for reform outlined in the ANOPR, a key theme in EDF’s 
comments is that not all large loads that co-locate with existing or new generators should be 
required to undergo the same interconnection and reliability planning processes.  Hybrid 
facilities (with co-location of generation and large loads) can help streamline the 
interconnection process because they can reduce the need for expensive grid upgrades and 
minimize delays in bringing new generation and load online.  A bifurcated or tiered review 
process should be implemented, allowing low-impact loads that are inherently less likely to 
cause significant transmission system upgrades to be studied and brought online more quickly 
than higher-impact loads.   
For example, some large loads can locate in areas with surplus energy – generation 
pockets where frequently-curtailed energy is “trapped” behind constrained transmission.  In 
effect, this load could delay the need for flowrate capacity expansion and reduce congestion 
cost in the case of a Regional Transmission Operator (RTO) Locational Marginal Price (LMP) 
market structure.  Locating large loads in these generation pockets will prevent curtailed energy 
from being wasted, reduce the frequency of the transmission constraints, and may allow the 
load to be integrated faster with less impact on the bulk electric system.  Conversely, proposals 
for large loads located in more congested areas of the grid may indeed require more extensive 
analysis and consequently take longer to bring online.  However, this distinction should not 

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
 
preclude the rapid study and integration of well-situated load proposals that offer immediate 
grid benefits. 
Another critical factor that varies significantly from one large load to another is 
operational flexibility.  Certain industrial processes or data center operations can be structured 
to curtail energy use on short notice in response to grid conditions or price signals.  Due to this 
flexibility, large curtailable loads can provide net benefits to the grid by reducing congestion, 
delaying need for transmission, and providing demand response capabilities to the system.  In 
contrast, some co-locating loads are highly dependent on uninterruptible service (“five-nines” 
reliability4) and thus place significantly more demand on the grid.  Loads that lack operational 
flexibility can lead to grid instability, unexpected power shortages and higher costs for other 
consumers.  However, inflexible large loads should not dictate the rules that apply to more 
operationally flexible co-location arrangements that can be studied more easily and potentially 
produce benefits for grid operations in a shorter timeframe.  Rather, the rules governing large 
co-located loads should be balanced with the ability for grid operators to use the flexibility of 
that load to operate the system more reliably.  Further, the more flexible the load, the more 
easily expedited its interconnection should be.  
 
4 This is a reference to high availability of services, such as when a service is available for 99.999% of 
the time, or around 5 minutes of downtime per year.  See 
https://www.techtarget.com/searchnetworking/feature/The-Holy-Grail-of-five-nines-reliability. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
 
II. 
COMMENTS 
A. 
PUHCA Reform: To Facilitate Direct Power Sales to Large Loads, Where 
Such Direct Power Sales are Permitted by the Relevant State, FERC Should 
Provide Blanket PUHCA Exemptions for IPPs that Sell Directly to Hybrid 
Facility Loads. 
 
As detailed in the ANOPR, the unprecedented growth in data centers necessitates 
Commission action to remove regulatory impediments to data center development.  One such 
impediment that is related to large load interconnections is the inability of IPPs that are also 
EWGs to own and operate the generation component of hybrid facilities and make direct sales 
to the load.  
In EDF’s experience, large hybrid facility loads do not pursue structural arrangements 
that require them to own or operate large-scale co-located generation.  This is due in part to the 
significant regulatory burdens and reliability requirements inherent in operating generation 
assets, a specialized function that demands distinct expertise in managing the complex 
challenges of owning and operating power plants.  That role is better suited to IPPs, whose sole 
focus is owning and operating generation facilities.  However, regulatory limitations on EWGs 
prevent IPPs from making direct sales to hybrid facility load even if the relevant state 
jurisdiction would allow such direct sales.  This can be a significant impediment to data center 
development, causing unnecessary delay and increased costs.  PUHCA reforms that allow IPPs 
to make direct sales to large loads without losing PUHCA exemptions for upstream 
owners/investors would facilitate the interconnection and service of new large loads on the 
system.  

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
 
1. 
“Sleeve” Transactions Serve Only to Maintain PUHCA Exemptions 
for Upstream Owners and are an Impediment to Power Sale 
Arrangements Between IPPs and Large Loads. 
Currently, EWGs are prohibited from making sales directly to end users (absent a 
company-specific waiver).5  As result, for IPPs that wish to maintain their EWG status, they 
must “sleeve” power sales through retail electric providers (REPs) who can then sell directly to 
large loads.  This “sleeve” requirement is a significant practical impediment to power sale 
arrangements between IPPs and large loads, especially in areas where REPs are small or in 
areas with cooperative or municipal service areas.6   
PUHCA exemptions are important for those IPPs whose upstream owners are not 
subject to public utility holding company regulation when they own only EWGs, Qualifying 
Facilities (QFs) or Foreign Utility Companies (FUCOs).7  By allowing upstream 
owners/investors of generation assets to avoid federal holding company regulations, the 
exemptions facilitate investment in new generation projects.  Project financing transactions 
often specifically require project companies to provide legal opinions that investors and lenders 
and their affiliates will not be subject to PUHCA’s access to books and records and accounting 
requirements as a result of their investment in the project company.8  The absence of this legal 
 
5 Under Section 366.1, an exempt wholesale generator is “any person engaged directly, or indirectly 
through one or more affiliates as defined in this subchapter, and exclusively in the business of owning or 
operating, or both owning and operating, all or part of one or more eligible facilities and selling electric 
energy at wholesale. . . .”    
6 For example, in some areas, a Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) between an EWG and a retail electric 
provider who in turn sells the power to a large load could be a transaction that is such a large percentage 
of the REP’s annual sales that the default risk would be too great to undertake the transaction. 
7 18 C.F.R. § 366.3.   
8 Legal opinions are routinely required to confirm that lenders or equity investors and their affiliates 
“will not be subject to or not exempt from, regulation as an electric utility company, a public utility 
company, and holding company under PUHCA solely as a result of their investment in an EWG project 
company.”   

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
 
assurance can jeopardize project financing, as investors and lenders are typically unwilling to 
accept the regulatory obligations associated with public utility holding company status. 
Currently, the most common way to provide this assurance is for U.S. project companies to 
adhere strictly to EWG or QF certification requirements.  
The sleeve requirement for the generation component of a hybrid facility is an 
inefficient transaction structure and increases costs – by unnecessarily imposing an REP 
“middleman” requirement in every transaction.  EDF’s experience has been that REPs do not 
undertake what are sometimes very large transactions without significant compensation.  Thus, 
the price of energy supplied to the hybrid load is artificially inflated – due only to the 
regulatory requirements imposed on EWGs to maintain exemptions to PUHCA requirements 
for upstream owners.  In areas where direct sales to large loads are allowed, a blanket 
exemption from the EWG direct sale limitation would be helpful to facilitate hybrid facility 
interconnections.  
States that incentivize direct bilateral transactions between the generator and load in 
these hybrid configurations, with two distinct owners and no middleman, will see greater 
industrial development in their state, which will in turn put downward pressure on ratepayer 
energy costs.  
2. 
The Commission Has Legal Authority to Grant Blanket Exemptions.  
 
Under Section 366.3(b)(1)(i) of the Commission’s regulations, the Commission is 
authorized to grant exemptions from PUHCA’s requirements, specifically Sections 366.2, 
366.21, 366.22, and 366.23, if the Commission “finds that the books, accounts, memoranda, 
and other records of any person are not relevant to the jurisdictional rates of a public utility or 

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 
 
natural gas company.”9 The Commission’s current regulations provide for several types of 
exemptions and waivers that are automatic,10 require the filing of a Form 65-A11 or 65-B12 or 
upon individual application for exemption by way of a petition for declaratory order.13  To date, 
the Commission has required entities that meet the definition of a “holding company” to either 
qualify for one of the recognized exemptions or waivers or to file a petition for declaratory 
order to obtain an individual Commission determination that their books and records are not 
relevant to jurisdictional rates to receive an exemption.14  
The Commission has regularly granted exemptions from PUHCA’s requirements to 
applicants filing a petition for declaratory order where the project company meets the 
Commission’s criteria for a non-traditional utility under Section 366.3(b)(2)(ii).15  For example, 
in NextEra Energy Resources LLC, the project company, a behind-the-meter solar facility, was 
located in an area that permitted it to make retail sales to large customers.  Although the project 
company represented that it may make some wholesale sales, it did not qualify for EWG status 
because it made retail sales, and it was too large to be a QF.  In response to the project 
 
9 NextEra Energy Resources, LLC, 189 FERC ¶ 61,082 (2024). 
10 Automatic exemption for persons that are holding companies solely with respect to QFs, EWGs, or 
FUCOs (18 C.F.R. § 366.3(a)). 
11 E.g., persons that qualify for exemptions under § 366.3(b)(2), such as passive investors, and 
jurisdictional utilities with no captive customers and do not own transmission.  
12 E.g., Single state holding company waiver, § 366.3(c)(1).   
13 18 C.F.R. § 366.3(b) and (d). 
14  NextEra Energy Resources, LLC, 189 FERC ¶ 61,082, at P 37 (2024); SER Capital Partners, LLC, 
188 FERC ¶ 61,023, at P 22 (2024); I Squared Capital Advisors (US) LLC, et al., 188 FERC ¶ 61,113, 
at P 23 (2024); Summit Ridge Energy, LLC, et al., 185 FERC ¶ 61,187, at P 17 (2023); Scale Microgrid 
Solutions, LLC, 188 FERC ¶ 61,164, at 27 (2024); Agilitas Energy, Inc., et al., 184 FERC ¶ 61,100, at P 
17 (2023); Ameresco, Inc., 181 FERC ¶ 61,119, at P 23 (2022).  
15 NextEra Energy Resources, LLC, 189 FERC ¶ 61,082, at P 34 (2024); SER Capital Partners, LLC, 
188 FERC ¶ 61,023, at P 21 (2024); I Squared Capital Advisors (US) LLC, et al., 188 FERC ¶ 61,113, 
at P 22 (2024); Summit Ridge Energy, LLC, et al., 185 FERC ¶ 61,187, at P 16 (2023); Agilitas Energy, 
Inc., et al., 184 FERC ¶ 61,100, at P 16 (2023); Ameresco, Inc., 181 FERC ¶ 61,119, at P 22 (2022). 

--- PAGE 9 ---
9 
 
company’s petition for declaratory order, the Commission granted an exemption for potential 
investors in the project company because the project company met the criteria for a non-
traditional utility, i.e., it did not have captive customers, own Commission-jurisdictional 
transmission facilities (other than limited and discrete generator interconnection facilities), or 
provide Commission-jurisdictional transmission services.16  
It would be burdensome for every IPP that is currently an EWG, or future IPPs that 
would otherwise qualify for EWG status, to have to file a petition for declaratory order to 
maintain an exemption from PUHCA’s requirements.  The time for the Commission to act on 
an individual petition for declaratory order has recently ranged from 82 days to nearly 6 
months17 and with the rapid expansion of large hybrid facilities expected to come online in the 
coming decade, the number of these filings is likely to increase dramatically.  The Commission 
should instead consider codifying the NextEra case into an automatic exemption for project 
companies that meet the same requirements.   
There are several options that the Commission could adopt into a new rule that would 
preserve a project company’s PUHCA exemptions and not require the filing of individual 
petitions for declaratory order:  
 
16 NextEra Energy Resources, LLC, 189 FERC at PP 33-34 (“Based on the information and 
representations in the Petition, we find that any of the Investors that currently qualifies for an exemption 
or possesses waiver from PUHCA accounting, record-retention, and reporting requirements would 
continue to be exempt from the requirements of Sections 366.2, 366.21, 366.22, and 366.23 of the 
Commission’s regulations if it were invest in the Project Company.”).  
17 NextEra Energy Resources, LLC, 189 FERC ¶ 61,082 (2024) (166 days); I Squared Capital Advisors 
(US) LLC, et al., 188 FERC ¶ 61,113 (2024) (172 days); SER Capital Partners, LLC, 188 FERC ¶ 
61,023 (2024) (124 days); Summit Ridge Energy, LLC, et al., 185 FERC ¶ 61,187 (2023) (82 days); 
Scale Microgrid Solutions, LLC, 188 FERC ¶ 61,164 (2024) (93 days); The Carlyle Group Inc., et al., 
185 FERC ¶ 61,117 (2023) (114 days); Agilitas Energy, Inc., et al., 184 FERC ¶ 61,100 (2023) (103 
days); Generate Capital, PBC, 182 FERC ¶ 61,098 (2023) (114 days); Ameresco, Inc., 181 FERC ¶ 
61,119 (2022) (135 days).  

--- PAGE 10 ---
10 
 
• Amend 366.3(a) to include an automatic exemption for IPPs that make direct sales to 
large loads, i.e., a fourth category of automatic exemption for QFs, EWGs, FUCOs and 
IPPs that sell directly to large loads;  
• Find that direct sales to large loads are an allowable incidental activity for EWGs that is 
consistent with the exclusivity requirement, given that the IPPs otherwise meet the 
nontraditional utility exemption requirements (no captive customers, no transmission 
ownership other than interconnection facilities); or   
• In lieu of project-by project petitions for declaratory orders, include in the EWG self-
certification procedures an option to request an exemption for direct sales to large loads 
that is automatic unless rejected by the Commission within the 60-day notice period 
provided in 366.7.   
 
For companies that would otherwise qualify for EWG status except for any direct sales 
to large loads, the Commission should find that pursuant to Section 366.3(b)(1), the books, 
accounts, memoranda, and other records of holding companies in the project company would 
not be relevant to any Commission-jurisdictional rates if the project company were to engage in 
retail sales because it would still not have captive customers, own Commission-jurisdictional 
transmission facilities (other than limited and discrete generator interconnection facilities), nor 
provide Commission-jurisdictional transmission services.  
Eliminating the need for each project company to submit a petition for declaratory order 
will remove a significant regulatory impediment for IPPs to participate in hybrid large load 
interconnections.  Large loads that can bring their own IPP-sourced generation to a proposed 
new interconnection can help relieve reliability and resource adequacy constraints.  IPPs will 
have incentives to compete against retail price signals for lower prices and more efficient 
capital allocation.  Removing regulatory impediments would eliminate the sleeve requirement 
in states where direct sales are otherwise allowed.  Thus, the price of energy supplied to the 
hybrid load would decrease because IPPs would be better able to compete for the generation 
component of hybrid facility interconnections.  

--- PAGE 11 ---
11 
 
3. 
Granting a Blanket Exemption Does Not Infringe on State 
Jurisdiction. 
 
A blanket exemption from PUHCA’s requirements would not determine whether a 
retail sale is allowed at the state level.  It could only be used in areas where the applicable state 
regulatory authority authorizes sales by IPPs directly to large loads, such as states with retail 
access or states that allow large customers to purchase directly from third-party owned 
generation resources whether behind or in front of the meter.   
To be clear, EDF is not asking the Commission to determine what retail sales are 
permitted.  Only where such direct sales to large load are permitted in the relevant state or local 
jurisdiction, the requested blanket waiver would allow IPPs that are otherwise EWGs to meet 
the non-traditional utility criteria to provide upstream owners a blanket waiver of PUHCA’s 
requirements.   
B. 
Comments on the ANOPR’s Fourteen Principles for Reform 
 
Principle 1: Avoid Affecting State Jurisdiction. 
EDF agrees that the proposed standardized interconnection procedures and agreements 
should be applicable only to those large loads and hybrid loads that are seeking to interconnect 
to the transmission system, as outlined in the ANOPR.  The Commission’s jurisdiction over 
Large Generator Interconnection Procedures (LGIP) does not infringe on state authority for the 
retail sale of electricity or the siting and permitting of generation facilities.  Likewise, by 
asserting jurisdiction over large load interconnections, the Commission would not be impinging 
on state authority over retail electricity sales or the siting and permitting of large load facilities.  
Because large load and hybrid facility interconnections could have a significant impact on the 
regional and interregional transmission grid covering multiple states, the interconnection 
procedures should be developed pursuant to federal jurisdiction.  

--- PAGE 12 ---
12 
 
Principle 2: Reforms Should Be Applicable to New Loads Greater than 20 
MW. 
The proposed 20 MW threshold for the new load interconnection reforms is consistent 
with the application of the Commission’s LGIP.  It is an appropriate threshold for new large 
load interconnections because it is likely to include the bulk of new large load interconnections.  
Principle 3: Load and Hybrid Facilities Should be Studied Together with 
Generating Facilities.   
EDF agrees that transmission providers should study co-located load and generation 
together, where practicable, to minimize upgrades and shorten time-to-energization.  Joint 
studies of hybrid facilities in particular can minimize the need for costly network upgrades 
because the impact of the new load can be offset by the addition of new generation.  Joint 
studies can also shorten the time to energization for both the co-located generation and load 
because of reduced impacts on the grid.   
In addition, interconnection studies should better utilize storage assets in 
interconnection requests.  Currently, interconnection studies do not accurately model real time 
operating characteristics of storage resources, which limits opportunities for storage resources 
to be deployed to serve large load needs.  Energy storage can be built quickly and are easily co-
located with data center load.  Storage can act instantaneously to counter a large load customer 
tripping offline and allows efficient use of the transmission system.  Meanwhile, transmission 
upgrades often take many years to build and thus may not meet load needs in a timely manner. 
Principle 4: Load and Hybrid Facilities Should Be Subject to Standardized 
Study Deposits, Readiness Requirements and Withdrawal 
Penalties.  
Load interconnection procedures should incorporate the same procedural requirements 
that govern generator interconnections in the LGIP.  Standardized provisions with deadlines, 
staged readiness deposits, and withdrawal penalties help deter speculative projects and provide 

--- PAGE 13 ---
13 
 
transmission providers with the necessary and timely information to enable more accurate study 
of a new large load’s impact on the transmission system.  Transmission providers should 
establish a load interconnection queue in which load and generation can be studied in an 
efficient, orderly, and transparent fashion. Through such transmission provider load 
interconnection queues, deadlines, readiness requirements, and withdrawal penalties can all be 
implemented on a nondiscriminatory basis.  The LGIP’s existing study deposits, readiness 
requirements, and withdrawal penalties can be emulated and adapted for this purpose – keeping 
the regional differences in place.   
In addition, standardized load interconnection agreements, study agreements, and 
facility construction agreements are necessary to ensure that the terms and conditions of load 
interconnection service are just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory.  The current 
regional generator interconnection pro formas can be adapted for this purpose.  
Principle 5: Hybrid Facilities Should Be Studied Based on the Amount of 
Injection or Withdrawal Rights Requested.  
 
The Commission should ensure that study processes reflect the unique load withdrawal 
and generation injection rights requested by hybrid facility developers.  Certain co-location 
structures place far less stress on the grid than network connected loads that regularly and 
materially use the grid for reliability.  Accordingly, if co-located generation and load are 
studied together, as EDF supports in response to Principle 3 above, study processes should 
recognize, and take advantage of, any flexible withdrawal and injection rights requests from co-
located large loads.  The Commission should avoid one-size-fits-all large load study processes 
that sweep grid-light or flexible co-located loads into a single network load classification. 
Loads with considerable operating flexibility, such as crypto mining load, should not be 
treated the same as AI data centers that need “five-nines” power reliability.  Some industries 

--- PAGE 14 ---
14 
 
are able to co-locate load behind the generator’s meter and do not require grid firming beyond 
their auxiliary power needs.  Some have significant operational flexibility and can even offer 
services back to the grid that can help with grid operations, such as demand response service.  
For example, EDF’s Las Majadas project in Texas has a flexible behind-the-meter load 
structure where the load can curtail when Las Majadas generation capacity is needed in the 
ERCOT market, which results in an increase in reliability and lowering of market prices in 
ERCOT.  In contrast, some data centers typically require 24/7 firm service and do not provide 
the same flexibility for the co-located generation resource to inject into the grid.  The 
Commission should ensure that any study processes that are developed have flexibility to 
accommodate diverse structures while ensuring that all pay their fair share of grid costs.   
 
As was developed in ERCOT, the Commission should develop an expedited study 
process for controllable load and generation to interconnect and economically dispatch in the 
wholesale market, or to participate as voluntary load shed resources.  These flexible resources 
present a minimal impact on the transmission system and can even offer system-wide reliability 
benefits while maximizing the efficient use of otherwise underutilized energy resources.  Some 
large loads can locate in areas with surplus energy – generation pockets where frequently-
curtailed energy is “trapped” behind constrained transmission.  Locating large loads in these 
generation pockets will prevent curtailed energy from being wasted, reduce the frequency of 
the transmission constraints, and may allow the load to be integrated faster with less impact on 
the bulk electric system.  In effect, this load could delay the need for flowrate capacity 
expansion and reduce congestion cost in the case of an RTO LMP market structure.  Due to 
their flexibility, large curtailable loads can provide cost-saving benefits to the grid by reducing 

--- PAGE 15 ---
15 
 
congestion, delaying the need for transmission, and providing demand response services when 
needed.  Study processes should be developed that look for these potential benefits. 
Specifically, for flexible hybrid loads arrangements that are controllable and 
dispatchable, the Commission should: 
 Implement an expedited interconnection study process for hybrid structures that 
accept curtailment and dispatch instructions; 
 Require that the size of the co-located load be a certain percentage of the generation 
co-located at the interconnection point (e.g., Load can be up to 70% of the Main 
Power Transformer); and  
 Implement ERCOT-type settlement rules during production period so that large 
loads and generation resources that are co-located behind a shared Point of 
Interconnection (POI) are netted together.  
 
In addition, the Commission should recognize the importance of allowing co-location to 
evolve with RTO design.  The Commission should ensure that flexibility is maintained as 
market designs evolve, including recognition of load response, load netting, and demand-side 
dispatch. 
Principle 6: Hybrid Interconnections Should Be Required to Install Protection 
Facilities to Prevent Unauthorized Injections or Withdrawals that 
Exceed the Respective Rights.  
 
In any standardized load interconnection procedures, the Commission should require 
hybrid interconnections to install the system protection facilities necessary to prevent 
unauthorized injections or withdrawals that exceed the respective rights available to the 
interconnection customer.  Specifically, the Commission should direct transmission providers 
to develop hybrid interconnection procedures, implementing a rights-based design that includes 
minimum telemetry/protection standards and operating schemes that prevent unauthorized 
injections/withdrawals beyond granted rights.  The Commission should ensure that the 
operational schemes and injection/withdrawal rights are strictly enforced.   

--- PAGE 16 ---
16 
 
Principle 7: Interconnection Studies of Large Loads that Agree to be 
Curtailable and Hybrid Facilities that Agree to be Curtailable 
and Dispatchable Should be Expedited. 
 
 
The Commission should fast-track curtailable loads and curtailable/dispatchable hybrid 
facilities with firm expedited timelines.  Given that curtailable load and dispatchable generation 
at hybrid facilities can be beneficial and useful to day-to-day grid operations, interconnection 
timelines should be significantly reduced – in some cases to as little as 60 days.   
EDF agrees that the system operator must have the ability to control such facilities 
through curtailment and/or dispatch and such control must be sufficient for the system operator 
to integrate the facility into both operations and system planning.  This level of operational 
control will ensure the timely interconnection of large loads to the transmission system in a 
reliable and non-discriminatory manner.   
The “conditional firm” service option as outlined in the Commission’s Order No. 890 
can help expedite new load interconnections.18  In Order No. 890, conditional firm service was 
found useful to facilitate the provision of long-term transmission service, provide customers 
with greater flexibility in choosing the service that meets their needs and help expedite 
interconnections.  Conditional firm transmission service can be especially useful to facilitate 
hybrid interconnections that may have less reliance on grid service because of the co-location 
of generation on site.  These interconnection structures choosing conditional firm service (or 
non-firm service) should be expedited.   
 
18 Preventing Undue Discrimination and Preference in Transmission Service, 118 FERC ¶ 61,119, PP 
78, 911-912, Order No. 890, 72 Fed. Reg. 12,266 (Mar. 15, 2007), FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,241, order 
on reh’g, Order No. 890-A, 121 FERC ¶ 61,297 at PP 5, 552, 573 Fed. Reg. 2984 (Jan. 16, 2008), 
FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,261 (2007), order on reh’g, Order No. 890-B, 123 FERC ¶ 61,299 (2008); 
Order No. 890-C, 126 FERC ¶ 61,228 (2009).  
 

--- PAGE 17 ---
17 
 
Principle 8: Load and Hybrid Facilities Should be Responsible for 100% of 
the Network Upgrades that are Assigned Through the 
Interconnection Studies. 
It is appropriate for large loads and hybrid facilities to pay for network upgrades 
required for their interconnection and transmission service based on their rights-based 
interconnection obligations.  As noted above, hybrid facilities should be able to benefit from 
reduced network upgrade costs by studying co-located generation and load together. It is also 
appropriate for there to be a crediting mechanism considered at some point in the term of the 
interconnection if the load or hybrid interconnection contributes more to transmission system 
revenues than it causes in network upgrades costs (i.e., the load or hybrid interconnection 
brings enough load to reduce transmission rates across the system).    
Principle 9: Interconnection Customer Shall be Afforded the Same (or 
Equivalent) Option to Build as Currently Provided to Generator 
Interconnection Customers.  
Load and hybrid facility interconnection customers should be afforded the same option 
to build interconnection facilities and network upgrades as currently provided to generator 
interconnection customers.  In hybrid facility interconnections especially, co-located generation 
is in a good position to undertake the option to build on behalf of the co-located facilities to 
expedite the construction of eligible upgrades.  
Principle 10: An Existing Generating Facility that Seeks to Enter a Partial 
Suspension to Serve a New Load at the Same Location Must Go 
Through a System Support Resource (SSR) or Reliability Must 
Run (RMR) Type Study.  
EDF does not offer comments on this principle.  
Principle 11: Utilities Serving Large Loads, Including Those at Hybrid 
Facilities, Should be Responsible for Transmission Service 
Based on Their Withdrawal Rights.  
 
As further discussed above in response to Principle 5, full network load or point-to-
point charges should not be the default transmission rate charged to all co-location structures.  

--- PAGE 18 ---
18 
 
Transmission charges should be assigned to hybrid facilities based on the specific grid services 
that the load uses.  Hybrid structures that are dispatchable and/or curtailable and place 
minimum demands on the transmission system (i.e., “grid-light”) should pay less in grid costs 
than co-location structures where the load requires five-nines reliability.  Services provided by 
curtailable load should be eligible for demand response revenues.  This is required by the 
Commission’s beneficiary pays principle.19   
Flexible hybrid load that does not rely on the transmission system the same way as 
network connected load should only be assigned charges for grid services when it is taking 
power from the grid.  For example, under ERCOT’s generation netting rules, generation and 
load behind a shared POI are netted together such that in each market settlement interval 
(fifteen minutes) if more power is flowing out (net generation on the grid) then it is settled as 
generation and no grid charges apply.  If more power is flowing in during the interval (net 
load), then it is settled as load with applicable transmission charges. Only co-location structures 
with load that regularly and materially use the grid should pay network load transmission 
charges, consistent with the Commission’s beneficiary pays principle.   
Principle 12: Utilities Serving Large Loads, Including Those at Hybrid 
Facilities, Should be Responsible for Ancillary Services Based 
on Peak Demand, Without Consideration of Any Co-Located 
Generation. Any Co-Located Generating Facilities Will 
Similarly Be Fully Compensated for the Provision of Ancillary 
Services.   
 
 
EDF does not offer comments on this principle. 
 
 
19 Under the “beneficiary pays” cost causation principle, rates must “reflect to some degree the costs 
actually caused by the customer who must pay for them.” Midwest ISO Transmission Owners v. FERC, 
373 F.3d 1361, 1368 (D.C. Cir. 2004).  Costs must be allocated in a manner that is at least roughly 
commensurate with the benefits an entity receives.  Ill. Com. Comm’n v. FERC, 576 F.3d 470, 474-78 
(7th Cir. 2009) (remanding Commission order for further proceedings in light of Commission’s failure 
to provide substantial evidence supporting Commission’s approval of cost allocation method as 
complying with “beneficiary pays” principle). 

--- PAGE 19 ---
19 
 
Principle 13: There Must Be a Plan to Implement These Proposed Reforms.  
 
Given the national urgency around data center demand, EDF supports a Commission 
schedule consistent with the DOE Secretary’s request for final action by April 30, 2026.  
Market regions should implement a framework that includes Open Access Transmission Tariff 
(OATT) filings with large load interconnection procedures and form agreements that borrow 
heavily from their FERC-approved generator interconnection procedures and agreements. The 
compliance period for those OATT revisions should reflect the urgency of the situation. 
Principle 14: Utilities Serving Large Loads Must Meet All Applicable NERC 
Reliability Standards and OATT Provisions.  
 
EDF does not offer comments on this principle.  
III. 
CONCLUSION 
For the foregoing reasons, EDFR requests that the Commission proceed expeditiously 
to develop flexible, rights-based interconnection rules and standard agreements to ensure the 
reliable and speedy interconnection of new large loads.  
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/ Linda Walsh_____ 
Temujin Roach 
 
 
 
Linda Walsh 
Emma Nix Simon  
 
 
 
Michael Blackwell 
Gabriel Messercola 
 
 
 
Husch Blackwell LLP 
Peter Hoegler  
 
 
 
1801 Pennsylvania Ave., NW 
EDF power solutions, Inc. 
 
 
Suite 1000 
15445 Innovation Dr.  
 
 
Washington, DC  20006 
San Diego, CA 92128  
 
 
Tel: (202) 378-2308 
Tel: (612) 486-4498  
 
 
linda.walsh@huschblackwell.com 
Temujin.Roach@edf-re.com  
 
michael.blackwell@huschblackwell.com  
EmmaNix.Simon@edf-re.com 
Gabriel.Messercola@edf-re.com 
Peter.Hoegler@edf-re.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Counsel to EDF power solutions, Inc. 
Dated: November 21, 2025 
 
