--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
 
 
Promoting Innovation Worldwide
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate                                     Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Transmission System                                                                 
 
Comments of the Information Technology Industry Council 
 
The Information Technology Industry Council (ITI) appreciates the opportunity to comment 
on the proposed advanced notice of proposed rulemaking (ANOPR) issued by the Federal 
Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) on October 27, 2025.  
 
ITI is the premier global advocate for technology, representing the world’s most innovative 
companies. Founded in 1916, ITI is an international trade association with a team of 
professionals on four continents. We promote public policies and industry standards that 
advance competition and innovation worldwide. Our diverse membership and expert staff 
provide policymakers with the broadest perspective and thought leadership from 
technology, hardware, software, services, and related industries. ITI represents a broad 
spectrum of stakeholders within the energy and artificial intelligence (AI) ecosystem, 
including data center developers, owners, operators, end-users, technology providers, 
power purchasers, energy distributors, and AI developers and users. We represent 
hyperscale, co-location, cloud, and enterprise data centers.  
 
ITI welcomes Secretary Wright’s directive to FERC to initiate a rulemaking process regarding 
large load interconnection. The timely and orderly connection of data centers to the bulk 
power system is one of our top priorities, and American innovation and leadership in the AI 
race hinges on the ability of data centers to quickly secure power from the grid. As there are 
currently no FERC regulations governing load-side interconnection, FERC’s rulemaking 
regarding this process would standardize the patchwork of interconnection processes that 
exist on the grid-operator level, allow for direct connection to bulk transmission, and 
standardize a very diverse retail electric market for large loads.  
 
ITI generally supports the principles listed in Secretary Wright’s directive. In the next 
section, ITI details responses to specific principles of note.  
 
Principle Two: “The reforms should only apply to new loads greater than 20 MW.”  
 
ITI suggests that the minimum load threshold be adjusted to 75MWs in order to not 
overburden the process.   
 
Principle Three: “Load and hybrid facilities should be studied together with generating 
facilities.”  
 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
 
 
 
2 
ITI supports the principle that load and generation should be studied together. We would 
like to clarify that this should not be limited to colocation arrangements. If new generating 
facilities are located at or near new load facilities, then they would both require less 
transmission and distribution upgrades than if they were studied separately. The bundling of 
new generation and load in interconnection studies would streamline efficiencies and 
necessitate fewer system upgrades.   
 
Interconnection studies should comprehensively model large load customers’ generation 
colocation arrangements, curtailment abilities, or arrangements with other parties that 
would result in fewer upgrades. Fewer system upgrades resulting from interconnection 
studies lead to faster energization timelines for large loads requesting interconnection. This 
serves as a considerable incentive for new large loads to evaluate and propose 
configurations that would result in fewer system upgrades, and utilities should provide 
guidelines for interconnection customers to arrange configurations that would minimize the 
time and expense of upgrades needed to connect to the grid. FERC should also consider 
introducing a cluster study process for large loads, similar to the cluster study process in 
Order 2023 for generation.   
 
Principle Four: “Like generating facilities, load and hybrid facilities should be subject to 
standardized study deposits, readiness requirements, and withdrawal penalties.”  
 
ITI supports the principle that loads should be subject to standardized study deposits, 
readiness requirements, and withdrawal penalties. This would reduce the number of 
speculative projects and provide more certainty to the interconnection queue. However, we 
would like to caveat that penalties for withdrawal must be applied surgically. As large load 
customers may be evaluating multiple sites at once, the withdrawal penalties should be 
based on the amount of time spent in the queue, study costs, and the withdrawal’s impact.   
 
Principle Seven: “The interconnection study of large loads that agree to be curtailable and 
hybrid facilities that agree to be curtailable and dispatchable should be expedited.”  
 
ITI agrees that hybrid projects and large loads that agree to be flexible according to 
operational standards that result in fewer transmission or generation investments would 
lead to reduced energization timelines. However, the prioritization of study queues based 
on the ability to be curtailable may lead to inconsistent policy priorities and raise significant 
questions around non-discriminatory and non-preferential access. Regulators should take 
into account the complexity of this issue in practice, and curtailment should be voluntary 
and not mandatory. Not all large loads are able to reduce their load flexibly and shift load 
across time or geographic areas. Sometimes, curtailing load from the grid involves firing 
backup generators, which are bound by existing air permit laws and noise control. Clear 
guidelines are needed to define the amount of flexibility and the duration of response 
expected.   
 
Principle Eight: “Load and hybrid facilities should be responsible for 100% of the network 
upgrades that they are assigned through the interconnection studies.”  
 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
 
 
 
3 
ITI supports the principle that large loads should be responsible for 100% of the network 
upgrades assigned through the interconnection study results. However, large-scale regional 
network upgrades, such as those planned through regional transmission planning processes, 
spread a wide range of benefits to a wide range of customers. Large loads should be 
responsible for 100% of the upgrades directly triggered by their interconnection to the 
extent that those upgrades do not convey broader benefit to other grid customers. On the 
other hand, when upgrades do provide broader benefits, costs should be allocated in 
accordance with their benefits. Any rulemaking by the Commission should maintain 
consistent “beneficiary pays” cost allocation principles, as directed by Order 1920/1920-A. 
The tech industry is committed to paying our full cost of service and our fair share of new 
transmission costs.   
 
###  
 
ITI appreciates the Commission for its attention to this important issue and the opportunity 
to provide comments. As the Commission commences the rulemaking process for large load 
interconnections, we look forward to engaging with the Commission to ensure that large 
load interconnection rules allow for greater certainty, transparency, expediency, and 
workability. Should you need more information, or if you would like to schedule a follow-up 
discussion, please contact Caroline Li, Manager of Policy, at cli@itic.org.     
 
Respectfully submitted,   
 
Caroline Li 
Manager of Policy, Energy and Environment  
Information Technology Industry Council (ITI)  
700 K Street, NW Suite 600  
Washington, DC 20001  
www.itic.org  
November 21, 2025 
