Concurring statement of Commissioner/Chairman Chang — RM26-4 / EL26 show cause orders, June 18, 2026.
Verbatim from the OCR'd order text (canonical copy: PJM, e-7-pjm-el26-67-000.txt; identical across all six orders).

CHANG, Commissioner, concurring:


In a series of orders today, the Commission initiates separate proceedings under
Federal Power Act (FPA) section 206 to explore the impact of the increasing growth of
large loads in Regional Transmission Organization (RTO) and Independent System
Operator (ISO) regions.  The preliminary findings in these orders, and the associated
proposed reforms to RTO/ISO and transmission owner tariffs, could significantly change
how loads procure, use, and pay for transmission service, with ramifications for
RTO/ISO operations, planning, and markets.  I write separately to emphasize the
importance of building actionable records in these proceedings, particularly with respect
to our consideration of customer protection, transmission service, and alternative
transmission technology reforms.
I.
Overview of Today’s Orders

In each of today’s orders to show cause, the Commission identifies a series of
issues raised by the ongoing growth of large loads, directs briefing on whether existing
tariffs remain just and reasonable in light of those developments, and describes possible
solutions to those issues if the Commission ultimately concludes that the relevant tariffs
are unjust and unreasonable.  Each order is directed to a specific RTO/ISO and relevant
transmission owners that play a role in interconnecting large loads to the Commission-
jurisdictional transmission system.  The Commission does not pursue the broad assertion
of jurisdictional authority contemplated in the Advanced Notice of Proposed
Rulemaking, which I hope assuages concerns raised by our state colleagues that the
Commission ought not encroach upon matters properly left to their jurisdiction.1

1 I will do my part to ensure that the Commission continues to be a collaborative
partner to our state counterparts, other federal agencies, and the industry as we seek to
address this wide-ranging challenge.  Accordingly, I welcome feedback from our state
colleagues and others if they believe the Commission’s preliminary findings raise
jurisdictional concerns.


--- PAGE 104 ---
Docket No. EL26-67-000
- 3 -



Broadly summarized, each order seeks regional input on a specific list of issues:
(1) the clarity and consistency of existing rules governing how each RTO/ISO and its
relevant transmission owners analyze the impact of providing transmission service to
Eligible Customers on behalf of large loads; (2) whether each RTO/ISO tariff requires
reforms to mitigate the risk of cost shifting among wholesale transmission customers; (3)
whether each RTO/ISO tariff (other than PJM) requires additional clarity regarding the
provisions addressing co-located generation and load arrangements; (4) the potential
extension of new firm and non-firm transmission services to co-located load, load with
behind the meter generation, and other flexible loads; and (5) the need for reforms,
modeled on Southwest Power Pool, Inc.’s High Impact Large Load Generation
Assessment concept, to facilitate a process through which a generator may temporarily
serve a co-located or electrically proximate load until interconnection and transmission
service is available.  The Commission also invites each region to submit FPA section 205
filings that can address each issue identified in the orders, thereby resolving the
Commission’s concerns.
II.
The Commission Needs Good Records to Ensure Reasoned Decision-Making

I first want to emphasize that the Commission needs active participation from
interested stakeholders to develop thorough records in each region.  The Commission
cannot make reasoned decisions about whether reforms might be needed without an
accurate understanding of the existing processes, which differ by region.  Because the
Commission is acting via FPA section 206 rather than generically through a rulemaking,
the issues addressed by these orders will be subject to ex parte restrictions across the
RTOs/ISO regions, including with our state colleagues whose regulation can and will
directly affect the individual transmission owners that need to comply with the orders
issued today.  This will limit the Commission’s ability to engage in informal fact-finding
and discussions with regional stakeholders, and thus, it is even more essential that the
record in each region fully reflects the views of all interested parties.

Second, I highlight three issues below that will be especially important to the
success of this effort, and I hope that interested parties will take particular care in helping
the Commission address those issues.  Importantly, I recognize that the record established
in each RTO/ISO region will (and should) differ, which will allow the Commission to
ensure any required changes to an RTO/ISO’s tariff are appropriately tailored to that
region’s needs.
III.
The Commission Needs to Pursue Meaningful Customer Protection

The FPA is fundamentally a customer protection statute,2 and the Commission has
an obligation to ensure that the rates that wholesale and transmission customers pay are

2 See, e.g., Mun. Light Bds. Of Reading and Wakefield v. FPC, 450 F.2d 1341,



--- PAGE 105 ---
Docket No. EL26-67-000
- 4 -


just and reasonable.  Rapid large load growth has strained planning and resource
procurement processes around the country, as transmission owners, load serving entities,
and generators accelerate the building of new infrastructure needed to serve these new
loads.  As we develop the new infrastructure, many have raised concerns about whether
these costs are being fairly assigned to new and existing customers, whose benefits must
be commensurate with the costs they pay.  While individual states have been exploring or
using various approaches to protect retail customers against unjustified cost shifts, the
Commission to date has not initiated any proactive exploration of how to protect
wholesale customers against unjustified cost shifts. I am laser-focused on this issue
because we should not create unjustified costs for consumers in our efforts to connect and
serve large loads.

In today’s orders, the Commission launches an inquiry into whether existing
RTO/ISO tariffs include adequate mechanisms to mitigate the risk of undue cost shifting
among transmission customers.  To address this risk, the Commission preliminarily
identifies a two-part solution: (1) that each RTO/ISO post public information about the
amount of new large loads seeking to connect to the RTO’s/ISO’s transmission system,
any Network Upgrades identified in the local transmission planning process to serve
those loads, and the costs of those Network Upgrades; and (2) that each RTO/ISO adopt a
pro forma cost recovery agreement to help ensure that Eligible Customers serving large
loads bear the risk and are ultimately responsible for costs incurred to provide
transmission service.  I strongly support this effort to provide additional transparency
regarding jurisdictional transmission service requests and the costs associated with
providing transmission service to the requesting parties, as the Commission cannot
effectively execute its statutory responsibilities without sufficient understanding of the
costs that feed into jurisdictional rates.

Exploring how agreements between transmission owners and Eligible Customers
can protect wholesale customers against cost shifts is important.  However, as I have
previously explained, bilateral agreements that simply provide transmission revenue
contributions untethered from any assessment of the actual cost of providing transmission
service induced by individual large loads may be insufficient to adequately protect other
customers against unjustified cost shifts.3  It is therefore important that the resulting
regulatory and rate design are not limited to a pre-defined solution set, and that parties
provide the Commission with comprehensive records outlining various and innovative

1348 (D.C. Cir. 1971) (stating that the FPA’s “primary aim is the protection of
consumers from excessive rates and charges”).
3 E.g., PECO Energy Co., 193 FERC ¶ 61,148 (2025) (Comm’r
Chang, concurring); Commonwealth Edison Co., 194 FERC ¶ 61,109 (2026) (Comm’r
Chang, concurring).


--- PAGE 106 ---
Docket No. EL26-67-000
- 5 -


approaches to protect customers.  I am encouraged by the continued development of the
ANOPR record on this subject,4 innovative solutions being developed at the state level,5
and a growing body of thoughtful analyses and proposed approaches to provide customer
protection for costs driven by large load growth.6  Without prejudging any particular
proposed solution, the Commission needs a robust record in each docket and each region
to ensure we establish the right cost shift protections for wholesale customers, including
but not limited to the commitments outlined in the Ratepayer Protection Pledge.7

I support initiating our own review of customer protection approaches, rather than
simply relying on voluntary commitments that may fall short of optimal protection,
because the Commission has the opportunity and obligation to get this issue right.  I
therefore encourage interested parties to assist the Commission in that effort by clearly
and comprehensively explaining the benefits and tradeoffs of alternative customer
protection approaches.  How power infrastructure costs will be assigned across Eligible
Customers that serve large loads and other customers is at the core of the efforts we
initiate today.
IV.
The Commission Needs to Understand the Implications of Extending New
Transmission Services to Additional Loads and Regions

The orders also preliminarily find that the Commission should extend the
transmission services developed in the PJM co-location proceeding – Interim NITS, Firm
Contract Demand, and Non-Firm Contract Demand – to new types of load and new

4 E.g., Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Trans. Sys., Supplemental
Comments of FirstEnergy Svc. Co., Docket No. RM26-4-000 (filed June 5, 2026); id.,
Comment of the Harvard Electricity Law Initiative, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Apr. 15,
2026); id., Supplemental Comments of WIRES, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Mar. 30,
2026).
5 E.g., Utility Dive, Microsoft seeks Nevada tariff to shield ratepayers from data
center costs (June 8, 2026), available at https://www.utilitydive.com/news/microsoft-
seeks-nevada-tariff-to-shield-ratepayers-from-data-center-costs/822250/.
6 E.g., Travis Kavulla, How Will Data Centers Pay for Power?, American Affairs
(may 2026), available at https://americanaffairsjournal.org/2026/05/how-will-data-
centers-pay-for-power/ ; Electricity Customer Alliance, A Customer-Centric Agenda for
the Federal Energy Reg. Comm’n (Jan. 2026), available at https://lnkd.in/em-apfuQ;
Grid Strategies, Federal Transmission Pricing Vol. 2, Options for Ensuring Affordability
in an Era of High Load Growth (June 2026), available at
https://gridstrategiesllc.com/project/federal-transmission-pricing.
7 Proclamation No. 11014, 91 Fed. Reg. 11439 (Mar. 4, 2026).


--- PAGE 107 ---
Docket No. EL26-67-000
- 6 -


regions.  These new transmission services represent a fundamental paradigm shift from
the traditional network service and point-to-point transmission service models established
in Order No. 888 that have been used across the country for the last three decades.  While
these services have the potential to facilitate more efficient use and build out of the
transmission system, they also contemplate running the system “tighter” than we have
done in the past, potentially with more loads on the system served by co-located or
behind-the-meter generation, and potentially more use of batteries, load control systems,
and backup resources to manage demand during system peaks or other stressed
conditions.  While it is important to identify innovative solutions that can adapt to the
needs of the system, the Commission and grid operators must also be careful not to
implement changes that create unforeseen reliability risks.  Ultimately, we must find the
proper balance (and I would argue we are exploring a new balance) between costs of
investments versus reliability.

The Commission’s experience in the PJM co-location proceeding highlights the
complexities and challenges of introducing these new transmission services, which have
significant ramifications for system operations, transmission planning, grid reliability,
market dispatch, resource adequacy, and cost allocation.  As the Commission considers
whether to expand these transmission services to new types of load and new regions, I
encourage commenters to address what impacts the introduction of new firm and non-
firm transmission products would have in their regions, as well as any relevant
characteristics that might distinguish their regions from the Commission’s findings in the
PJM co-location docket.  Ultimately, this topic will have direct long-term impacts on how
future transmission systems will be planned and configured, how efficiently future power
markets will operate, and how customers will respond to prices and system needs.
Therefore, I am specifically interested in understanding how extending the new
transmission services might affect individual suppliers or customers, as well as how
existing systems or processes might be affected by these new services.  I am open to
understanding how these services might be helpful to a region or that they may create
problems not yet anticipated.
V.
The Orders Recognize the Importance of Evaluating Advanced Transmission
Technologies

Lastly, today we preliminarily find that each RTO/ISO’s tariff is unjust and
unreasonable because the tariff lacks clear and consistent provisions requiring the
evaluation of alternative transmission technologies as potential solutions to accommodate
an Eligible Customer’s request for transmission service on behalf of a large load.
Specifically, it is important for RTO/ISOs and transmission owners to evaluate whether
alternative transmission technologies are feasible in reducing the cost of transmission
system upgrades or allow for a faster timeline for accommodating the transmission
service request.  As many transmission owners have explored various alternative


--- PAGE 108 ---
Docket No. EL26-67-000
- 7 -


technologies in pilot projects,8 it is time to roll out all available technologies to reduce
risks and costs for customers, as well as help the industry continue to develop new
technologies that can increase the robustness of our transmission system while protecting
customers from higher costs.
VI.
Conclusion

Today’s orders address some of the most consequential issues currently in the
industry and before the Commission.  I hope that these proceedings provide vehicles
through which the Commission can provide much-needed clarity and direction, and it is
imperative that we build strong and comprehensive records on each issue in each region
to inform our decision-making.  I therefore encourage all interested parties to fully
engage and help the Commission navigate these complex, multi-faceted challenges.  Our
success will ultimately be measured by our shared ability to deliver reliable and
affordable power to all customers, to ensure new loads can interconnect in a timely
fashion while paying their fair share of system costs, and to protect existing customers
against adverse reliability or economic impacts.

8 See, e.g., Increasing Mkt. and Planning Efficiency Through Improved Software,
Effective Congestion Mitigation with Transmission Topology Optimization at Alliant
Energy and ATC, Docket No. AD10-12-016, available at
https://www.ferc.gov/media/effective-congestion-mitigation-transmission-topology-
optimization-alliant-energy-and-atc (Alliant and ATC were able to save customers
approximately $24 million over a 12-month period through the use of topology
optimization); Pablo Ruiz and Derek Brown, “Reliable and Efficient Congestion
Mitigation Using Transmission Reconfigurations,” NewGrid and Evergy presentation
(Oct. 2022)¸ available at https://www.spp.org/Documents/67968/SAG%20Meeting%20
Materials%2020221007.zip (identifying reconfigurations, had they been implemented,
which could eliminate 98% of overloads and reduce congestion costs by 85% for
congestion patterns associated with 10 significant constraints on Evergy’s system);
Pacific Gas & Electric Press Release, PG&E and Smart Wires Enhance Grid Reliability,
Capacity for Data Centers in San Jose (May 28, 2025), available at
https://investor.pgecorp.com/news-events/press-releases/press-release-details/2025/PGE-
and-Smart-Wires-Enhance-Grid-Reliability-Capacity-for-Data-Centers-in-San-
Jose/default.aspx (describing PG&E’s deployment of advanced power flow control
devices were able to mitigate thermal overloads by up to 34%, enabling an additional 100
MW of firm power delivery over existing lines at a congested substation).


--- PAGE 109 ---
Docket No. EL26-67-000
- 8 -


For these reasons, I respectfully concur.


________________________
Judy W. Chang
Commissioner



--- PAGE 110 ---

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION
PJM Interconnection, L.L.C.
AEP Appalachian Transmission Company, Inc.
AEP Indiana Michigan Transmission Company, Inc.
AEP Kentucky Transmission Company, Inc.
AEP Ohio Transmission Company, Inc.
AEP West Virginia Transmission Company, Inc.
Allegheny Electric Cooperative, Inc.
American Transmission Systems, Incorporated
Appalachian Power Company
Atlantic City Electric Company
Baltimore Gas and Electric Company
Commonwealth Edison Company
Commonwealth Edison Company of Indiana, Inc.
Dayton Power and Light Company
Delmarva Power & Light Company
Duke Energy Kentucky, Inc.
Duke Energy Ohio, Inc.
Duquesne Light Company
Essential Power Rock Springs, LLC
Hudson Transmission Partners, LLC
Indiana Michigan Power Company
Jersey Central Power & Light Company
Kentucky Power Company
Keystone Appalachian Transmission Company
Kingsport Power Company
Linden VFT, LLC
Mid-Atlantic Interstate Transmission, LLC
Monongahela Power Company
Neptune Regional Transmission System, LLC
NextEra Energy Transmission MidAtlantic Indiana, Inc.
Ohio Power Company
Ohio Valley Electric Corporation
Old Dominion Electric Cooperative
PECO Energy Company
PPL Electric Utilities Corporation
The Potomac Edison Company
Potomac Electric Power Company
Public Service Electric and Gas Company
Rockland Electric Company
Silver Run Electric, LLC
Docket No. EL26-67-000



--- PAGE 111 ---
Docket No. EL26-67-000
- 2 -


Trans-Allegheny Interstate Line Company
Transource West Virginia, LLC
UGI Utilities, Inc.
Virginia Electric and Power Company
Wabash Valley Power Association, Inc.
Wheeling Power Company


(Issued June 18, 2026)
