FERC Open Meeting — June 18, 2026. Auto-generated YouTube captions (imperfect; verify quotes).
Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r7y-iDn-rkU  Captured via yt-dlp --write-auto-subs.

[00:00:00] Order, order. Sorry, I've always wanted to do that. &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; Okay, just kidding. Madam Secretary, we're ready to begin. &gt;&gt; Good morning and welcome to the June 2026 open meeting of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. FERC's mission is to assist consumers in obtaining reliable, safe, secure, and economically efficient energy services at a reasonable cost through appropriate regulatory and market means and collaborative efforts. The purpose of the open meeting is for the Commission to consider the matters that have been duly posted in accordance with the Government in the Sunshine Act. Members of the public are invited to observe, which includes attending, listening, and taking notes, but does not include participating in the meeting or addressing the Commission. Actions that purposely interfere or attempt to interfere with the commencement or conducting of the meeting or inhibit the audience's ability to observe or listen to the meeting are not permitted. This includes attempts by audience 
[00:01:00] members to address the Commission while the meeting is in progress. Any persons engaged in such behavior will be asked to leave the building. Anyone who refuses to leave voluntarily will be escorted from the building. Additionally, documents presented to the Chairman, Commissioners, or staff during the meeting will not become part of the official record of any Commission proceeding, nor will they require further action by the Commission. If you wish to comment on an ongoing proceeding before the Commission, please visit our website for more information. Also, representatives from FERC's Office of Public Participation are located just outside of the meeting room to answer questions and to assist the public with submission inquiries. Thank you for your cooperation. &gt;&gt; Good morning, Madam Chairman. Good morning, Commissioners. This is the time and place that has been noticed for the open meeting of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to consider the matters that have been duly posted by the Commission. Please join us in the 
[00:02:01] Pledge of Allegiance. &gt;&gt; I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. &gt;&gt; Commissioners, since the May 21st, 2026 open meeting, the Commission has issued 66 notational orders. Thank you. &gt;&gt; Thank you, Madam Secretary. Good morning, everyone. I have never been so excited for a FERC meeting, and I can see by the unprecedented size of the crowd that you all are excited, too. So, let's get started. We promised some fireworks last month, and we are going to light the fuse today. 
[00:03:01] I I really enjoyed the FERC nerd Twitterverse exploding last night after our revised Sunshine Act, so let's see who guessed right. I heard uh Commissioner Liser put some bets on, but we'll see how much money he gets. &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; So, last night we issued an updated Sunshine notice that added items E7 through 12 to this morning's agenda. These six new dockets contain show cause orders tailored to each of the six RTOs and ISOs under our jurisdiction. We're finding that those existing tariffs appear to be unjust and unreasonable because they do not adequately address how to integrate large and co-located loads onto the transmission system. Today, we are taking historic action to push our country's electric markets and economy into the future. This is a future of fair cost allocation, unprecedented transparency for the American rate payer, 
[00:04:00] respect for states' rights, efficient markets, reliable service, and speed to power. I'm really grateful to the Americans sitting around this table with me because it's thanks to them that we are able to do this step together. Last October, Secretary Wright's advanced notice of proposed rule making articulated the monumental generational urgent challenge that FERC must solve for our country when he directed us to develop reforms to ensure the timely and orderly interconnection of large load to the transmission system. I strongly agree. And now, through this suite of six orders, we are delivering. We deliberately crafted these show cause orders to address the problems the ANOPR raised in a way that is quick, efficient, and legally durable. Thank you, Secretary and the White House, for your aggressive leadership and creativity on these issues. I'm proud that today's actions direct each FERC jurisdictional grid operator 
[00:05:01] and their respective transmission owners to look closely at their existing market rules and determine what changes they must make to efficiently and reliably integrate large loads. This isn't just for data centers, it's for manufacturing and industrialization as well. We will have staff present more detail about today's orders in a bit, but I'll provide a short preview of the five major categories of reforms we're ordering each grid operator to do. First, they must have clear transmission service application and study rules for transmission customers that will serve large loads or develop new processes to do so. Second, we are simultaneously protecting customers and giving the states what we've heard they want. Each market must show that it has adequate safeguards against cost shifting or take steps to create them. We also preliminarily direct each market to provide unprecedented transparency 
[00:06:02] and to network upgrade costs that the states can then in turn use to inform retail rate making. These reforms are in direct response to the feedback that we have heard from the states and we have taken it very seriously. Third, we are requiring the markets to either demonstrate or create clear rules to guide colocation and the use of behind the meter generation. Fourth, we are requiring the markets to prove or develop new transmission services to reflect large load flexibility. And fifth, we are directing the markets to create study pathways, if they don't already exist, for generation facilities to be studied in a manner that accounts for a large electrically proximate or collocated load. This should prevent unnecessary and expensive transmission build-out. After careful analysis of the extensive record developed in the ANOPR proceeding and the market innovations we've approved since October, 
[00:07:02] I and my colleagues have concluded that these individualized show cause orders and their categories of reform honor all of the ANOPR principles, but they also account for regional variation and avoid some of the pitfalls and delay that might potentially accompany a one-size-fits-all rule, including the momentum gained by the post-ANOPR developments in specific markets. Although these show cause orders cover nearly 2/3 of customers served by commission jurisdictional entities, our actions today leave room for and encourage, and we very much do encourage, filings made under FPA sections 205 and 206 that address the concerns we articulate. As explained in the orders, the commission will consider requests for a variance of all or part of the show cause proceedings that are filed within 45 days and also explain with sufficient detail a plan to finalize and file proposals 
[00:08:01] under section 205 that address the issues that we identify. These orders should not foreclose the possibility of a future rule making. We're under no large no illusion that large load issues are limited to the RTO ISO regions of the country. Stakeholders in the rest of the country should continue to submit evidence to the ANOPR docket about any similar barriers to entry that they face. We remain ready to review and take decisive action on any 205 filings we receive and regardless of where they are located. Furthermore, our orders should not be an excuse not to innovate. We welcome proposals from anyone who is trying to address the challenges of integrating large load proactively. I've always said that this is a big issue that requires thought partners from all over and we very much continue to encourage and believe that. A few minutes to address the elephant in 
[00:09:00] the room, jurisdiction. The rates for interstate transmission service and the processes for interconnecting new generation generators to the transmission system have always been squarely within FERC's jurisdiction. Nothing in today's orders intrudes either on the authority of states to select, site, and permit generating resources or on the authority of state PUCs to set the rates, terms, and conditions of retail sales of electricity. We make clear that we act today to guard against cost shifting among transmission customers, but the states have the responsibility to ensure that there is no cost shifting among retail customers because that simply is not within FERC's power to safeguard. We have heard loud and clear through the president's ratepayer protection pledge that data centers are prepared to pay the costs of their upgrades. Today's orders act within FERC's jurisdiction and make clear that free riding on other customers is not an 
[00:10:00] option. We call on our state counterparts to finish the job. You have to protect residential and small business customers against cost shifts at the retail level because we simply cannot under the law. To that end, the show cause orders tee up unprecedented transparency requirements for each region, and we seek comments specifically from the state PUC's, consumer advocates, and other state entities on whether additional measures are necessary to ensure that states can reallocate wholesale costs accurately to the right customers. Finally, on this topic, it's personally very important to me that I emphasize the point that the orders make, which is our actions are not intended to disrupt existing commercial agreements that large loads and utilities have negotiated or in the process in negotiating that involve transmission. We're establishing prospective reforms, and as such provide that the markets should allow parties a reasonable amount of time to finalize any agreements that 
[00:11:02] are nearing completion when any tariff revisions are submitted to the commission. This is our attempt to protect commercial interests because we are keenly aware of a regulatory chilling effect that may happen. Before turning to other items, I wanted to thank the team that drafted these orders, and they will be presenting to us in a little bit, but I've had the privilege of working with some of the best minds in the industry during my career, and I am so proud to say that some of the best work I have ever seen happening at this commission and on this team. I know we're all looking forward to thanking you in person later, so we'll leave that for their presentation. Moving on to item E2, PJM's colocation order on rehearing and compliance. We're issuing an order on rehearing of our December PJM colocation order and compliance proposals. We're largely sustaining our findings, but I wanted to emphasize one change that we're making, which is we're setting aside our finding that loads with behind-the-meter generation would 
[00:12:01] not be able to take the new transmission services that will be created in PJM. What's particularly important to me is that on rehearing, based in part on the thorough and persuasive comments submitted by the Industrial Energy Consumers of America and others, on whether limitations of behind-the-meter generation should apply to certain co-gen QFs, we find in today's order that those facilities may be able to demonstrate that they do not pose the same reliability or resource adequacy concerns that motivated the commission's findings in December. This commission wants to safeguard American Industrials under my leadership. &gt;&gt; [clears throat] &gt;&gt; Moving on to item E6, outside of today's showstoppers, we're also approving a very important holistic overhaul of MISO's demand response program. The existing demand response rules in MISO are a disparate patchwork of legacy programs that have been stitched 
[00:13:00] together over the past two decades. And that shows. The record shows that non-performing demand response resources with emergency obligations have collected tens of millions of dollars in capacity payments when they do not show up. We can't countenance this result, particularly given this environment where we need every single electron we can get, and every ratepayer needs to save every single dollar that they can. Moving on to Well, I think this is my last surprise firework for today. Item C2. &gt;&gt; [clears throat] &gt;&gt; A little background there. The commission today has not fully capitalized on recent legislation, the Supreme Court's decisions in Seven County, and CEQ's rescission of NEPA regulations. These are collectively a sea change in federal agencies NEPA obligations. We are working hard at reforms that will streamline gas permitting while protecting landowners and bolstering 
[00:14:00] investor confidence to build the infrastructure that we desperately need in this country. And that means maintaining excellent orders that we believe will hold up to judicial review. A big step in that direction is today's C2 order, which explains how the cumulative effects analysis that FERC has been doing today in its environmental documents exceeds what NEPA requires. Simply put, NEPA does not require the commission to complete a cumulative effects analysis, and we are no longer going to waste valuable staff and applicant time and money doing an analysis that is not necessary under the law. From my first day I've committed to streamlining our process and increasing transparency, and now we're beginning to deliver and there is more to come. One last topic for me. Earlier this week, the commission moved to dismiss lawsuits filed by opponents of the Constitution pipeline in the Second Circuit. &gt;&gt; [clears throat] 
[00:15:00] &gt;&gt; These project opponents prematurely sought judicial review, and we are aggressively fighting them. Under my leadership, this commission will vigorously defend its infrastructure orders. That includes taking a firm stand when development opponents resort to procedural gamesmanship, such as filing clearly premature lawsuits that a court lacks any jurisdiction to hear, and that is what happened here. This commission will not abide such tactics, and I hope that this week's motion stands as a testament to that ironclad commitment. Now, I will take a breath and open the floor to my colleagues, Commissioner Rossner. &gt;&gt; Thank you, Chairman, and and good morning, everyone. Uh I hope you all are enjoying the first uh first little bit of the DC summer. Um but before we get started, uh I I'd like to congratulate uh Ariel Schwartz, uh one of my technical advisers and lead on on energy projects in my office, on her new baby boy. 
[00:16:01] Uh she's out on a well-earned leave. Uh she promises she's not reading email or Teams, uh and uh we're just going to have to trust that she's not, and she's actually taking time with her family. Uh but but I really wish her and the family the best in these months at home. Um and uh my office uh is on a pretty good clip of uh expanding the US population. And so, some bear bear with us as we uh as we navigate. Um but uh on that note, uh I have uh want to welcome uh from the Office of General Counsel, Energy Projects, Abby Kristoff, uh who is right there. Uh she's filling in on detail. Abby's got a ton of experience here at the commission, uh and uh has jumped right in uh at at a critical moment in American energy to to cover the items on today's agenda. Uh Also on staffing, I'd like to welcome John Brady. John. 
[00:17:01] Uh John is our new legal in intern. He's here for the summer. Uh he's coming from Harvard Law School. I know John uh because when I worked in the Senate, right at the beginning, he asked me for coffee, and he said, "Dave, um I'd like to know more about the Federal Power Act. And so we got him out of the Senate, we got him to law school, and now we got him at FERC. And so, you know, welcome back and uh we've been keeping him busy, too. Uh and so, thank you to all the colleagues for being so welcoming to to Abby and John. Uh and uh now I want to turn to the ANOPR. Um so I I I'm really delighted to be joining my colleagues uh in a unanimous response to Secretary Wright's ANOPR on the integration of large loads to the bulk power system. Uh and and Chairman Chatterjee, I I want to acknowledge you uh in particular for your leadership uh and for for getting us to the moment that we're at today. Uh I'm I'm really proud to have 
[00:18:01] been a part of of it and and it wouldn't have happened without you really doing the hard work here. And I want to thank all the teams that sit behind the five of us at the table and and especially the big FERC team uh that pulled this together. Uh and same for everybody here in this room who who filed comments, who took meetings, uh who taught us about how your business actually works, um or who helped us understand things like the challenges that regular consumers in in your state face when they pay their energy bills. It was a lot of hours and a lot of work uh and and, you know, really important. Uh and you know, I I won't kick around the usual intros that people give on this topic. Everyone around this table has weighed in on the reliability and affordability challenges that result from all these big new loads connecting to the grid. Um but the bottom line is today we're acting. Uh and you just heard the Chairman's points. I'll offer some 
[00:19:00] insights from from my perspective on the orders and their impact. I'm sure my colleagues will do the same. Um but as the Chairman said, we're we're we're directing each of the six RTOs to show cause. That's the first technical term, as to why their rules are sufficient to address the rapid addition of large loads including data centers to the grid. In each of these orders, it's a little bit different because every region is different and we took those differences into account. And the orders also reflect, as the chairman mentioned, that progress has been made uh but it's not been even across the country. And so stepping back from those procedural details, today's orders chart an important a course towards an important goal. Let's connect large loads quickly, efficiently, and reliably while we ensure that rates remain affordable for everyone, especially residential customers. And so I've got a concurrence that I'll post on this. I think we all do. Um but I want to walk through how the reforms fit together and how they will 
[00:20:01] help us in accomplish that goal. Um but it's going to be a lot easier with a poster or two. &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; All right. So, uh if you take anything away from my remarks, I hope it's this. We're We're looking at reforms. I I came up with four. I can &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; I can I came up with four areas, you know, I did my own research on this. The chairman's got five. She's probably right, but we're with my four for now. Um I call them pillars uh and that's because they underpin everything in these orders. And And here are the pillars. The first one, protect consumers. The second one, safeguard reliability. The third one, enhance transparency, and the fourth fourth one, foster transparency. So let's talk about protecting consumers. In these orders, we're requiring these things called cost recovery agreements. They're mandatory contracts that are designed to ensure that if new transmission infrastructure is built to serve a data center and that data center doesn't show up, 
[00:21:01] other customers, especially regular consumers, will not be on the hook for those costs. Period. These These contracts address stranded cost risk. And they also can help solve for timing differences between when the costs are incurred and the actual people that pay the bills get energized. And so we can make sure that the large loads pays the whole time and not other customers. And we're also making sure that the payments that are made through these things, these contracts, they're actually credited towards the transmission transition transmission revenue requirements. So these payments go to reduce the cost for customers and not simply guarantee that utilities get paid back. And we're also separately allowing a lot of flexibility and innovation in these contracts because this space is evolving rapidly. And the commission has to be nimble. And so I want to underscore here, these contracts are designed to work in harmony with state rate making, which is really critical. 
[00:22:01] &gt;&gt; [snorts and clears throat] &gt;&gt; And I'll address the states a little bit more in the in a moment, but please read the order about this. It's It's nuanced, but it's really important. Um So next, I'd be a little remiss under consumer protection if I didn't preview pillar four, which is innovation. Our smarter study requirements that are going to minimize infrastructure and provide carrots to big customers to bring their own infrastructure with them. That's going to minimize impacts on consumers and we'll talk more about that later. I got one final point on consumer protection in what I think is a really big win for consumers. We're requiring grid operators to evaluate grid enhancing technologies when they seek to connect new large loads to the grid. Now grid enhancing technologies that there's There's solutions like dynamic line ratings, advanced conductors, and a whole bunch of other things that you can read about in this order. This allows us to get more out of the existing grid, save consumers money, connect projects faster. And from my perspective, and I think 
[00:23:00] you know, this really fits the American ethos. This is just common sense because we're doing more with less. And the cheapest transmission line is the one that already exists. And in here we're also for for my energy geek friends, we're also asking the grid operators to use tools that are actually technically capable of studying these technologies. So no more hand waves, show your work, prove it. And on this issue I I want to acknowledge Commissioner Christie for her leadership and the chairman's support and guidance for developing this part of the orders. And we're going to make sure that we're not leaving efficiency on the table. Second pillar, safeguard reliability. We're requiring that all the RTOs and ISOs conduct large load impact studies that evaluate the unique reliability impact of large loads. Now we've talked about this at this room. Back in 2024 you heard reports from NERC about data centers in Virginia, other parts of the country 
[00:24:00] tripping offline, causing voltage and frequency disturbances on the bulk power system. Not good. Uh we're going to make sure that when you connect these new large loads that can change their energy consumption in seconds, we're going to make sure the transmission providers have the studies that give us sufficient visibility into the large loads that connect to the bulk power system and take the operational realities into account before we put them online. And you know, you might be hearing oh no, another study, what's FERC doing? Well, here we're trying to be fast, we're trying to enable speed to power. And so for this reason we've got a 60 to 90-day timeline consistent with the principles of the annual burden to do this work. And I want to take one second. I see I see I see Fritz from NERC in the back there. Um I want to acknowledge NERC also. And so this isn't in today's order, but I want to highlight the ongoing effort of NERC to establish registration criteria and reliability criteria for large computational loads. NERC is aiming to finish the first phase 
[00:25:01] of that work this year. If you ask me, it's essential that NERC meet that timeline. Because job number one here, reliability, I think today's orders complement that work and help us deliver on that goal for all consumers. Third pillar, enhanced transparency. In these orders, we're requiring that information on the cost of new infrastructure needed to connect to new large load is public, accessible, and clear. Who pays has been an important and sometimes contentious question when it comes to getting new large loads on lines. And I think today's orders operate from a simple principle. If grid upgrades are built to connect a data center, FERC, our state regulator colleagues, and the public should all know how much that upgrade cost and who it was for. And that's because the commission here and our state regulators and customers, they need that information to understand how connecting a large load affects 
[00:26:00] bills. And I want to mention as the as the chairman did, many large loads through the president's uh ratepayer protection pledge have committed to paying their fair share. My view, we should let them. And I think these reforms will take some steps in the right direction to ensure that we have the information needed to hold them to account. One other thing on on transparency here, our orders also address the problem of speculative load interconnection requests. We've been talking a lot about load forecasting for a while. Uh I I I fired off some letters to the RTOs last fall. We've talked about it around the table. The reason this is important is simple. Better data, better decisions. We need the best, most accurate data to plan. But under current rules, data centers can and frankly are incentivized to shop around. Their their projects with different utilities across a region, across the country trying to find the 
[00:27:00] fastest and cheapest location to connect. This clogs up load queues, it diverts resources, it inflates forecasts. And so, one of the ways we're working to address that problem, readiness requirements that escalate at distinct parts of the study process. Does that And if that sounds familiar, kind of like the it's kind of like the financial deposits reforms that we that we instituted in the interconnection queues. Not rocket science, we can figure this stuff out. We've learned a lot about it over the past years, we need to apply it here. And one more thing on the transparency topic. Um Uh this one's on grid enhancing technologies again. So, not only are we going to require utilities to consider grid enhancing technologies when that large load requests a study, but if they decide not to use them, then we're requiring them to explain why. And that's a big deal. Fourth pillar, foster innovation. Bottom line, when a load is willing to be flexible or 
[00:28:01] a load is electrically close. Oh, and I think I need a new poster for this one. &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; All right. &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; This should look familiar. But and I'll come come come into the details in a second. But but when a load is willing to be flexible or when a load is electrically close, or we call it proximate to a power plant, the result you can you might not need as much infrastructure cuz the electrons they don't have to go that far. And that's that that unlocks speed to power. That's the recurring theme in our orders, not just today, but the the one in December, too, because it's grounded in physics. [clears throat] So, some of this might look familiar as I mentioned from the December orders on co-location in PJM. And that's because the first four figures on this poster are the same transmission services we directed in the PJM co-location proceed proceeding. Uh and so because they're the same, the explanation for why we're doing it is the same. The the transmission services that 
[00:29:00] unlock co-location, basically directly connecting a large load with the power needed to serve it at the same site. That and they also unlock load flexibility that enables large co-located loads to reduce how much they lean on the grid. Result, we avoid construction of unnecessary transmission upgrades. We reduce strain on the grid. Cheaper power bills for everybody, including families and small businesses. And co-located um loads and generators, they have a pathway and an incentive to get on easier than would and faster than otherwise would be the case. And so these orders today, they extend those services to other RTOs and ISOs, both for co-located loads, for large flexible loads that are not co-located as well. And also, for customers that are interested in full front of the meter service, we also extend the interim NITS option that provides a bridge while that infrastructure to get you fully connected is being built. 
[00:30:00] And so finally, I want to talk about this last figure down at the bottom. Today's orders embrace another innovation and it's really similar to co-location. It's when a load and generation are electrically close or proximate, they get studied together, the reliability on the impacts on the grid, they can be a lot more limited than if you study them separately. And so this means fewer fewer transmission wires, faster connections, lower costs. And you may recall our our meeting I call it Chairman Swats SPP's crushing it meeting. You may recall that a few months ago, SPP did this a few months. They embraced this concept with something called Hilga. And today we're charting a course where other RTOs and ISOs can follow SPP's lead by figuring out how to study load and generation together. Get them get connected quickly. But most importantly in a way that works for their region because all the regions are a little bit different. And this reform it's really key. Speed 
[00:31:02] to power. We need new generation of all kinds which means we need to make bring your own new generation. Uh I'm supposed to read the acronym beyond. &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; I'm sure that one's going to stick but we got to make that easier and faster. That's the only way out of this problem. And so the the the reforms today particular reforms on our electrically proximate load and generation they do that. Uh and so that's it for the pillars. I'm going to put this down. Um I want to talk about the states briefly. Um All of the commission's actions in this proceeding respect the long-standing jurisdictional line between federal and state authority. Given to us by Congress, affirmed by the Supreme Court. The difference that I think today's order makes is that RTOs they have access to these new transmission services and interconnection service options that will help lower costs. And everyone's going to get some transparency into the transmission costs. They're going to get fast bulk power system impact studies to 
[00:32:02] protect reliability and we're going to have cost recovery agreements that work in harmony with state rate making including large load tariffs. And as the chairman said, I want to remind our public utilities outside of RTOs and ISOs that we're ready for your 205 filings that take signals from our work here. And this may sound familiar because I think we've all said essentially the same thing to the RTOs and ISOs a few months ago. So in closing, if you take one thing away from me on this topic, it's the the FERC action today covers four key pillars. Protect consumers. Safeguard reliability. Enhance transparency and foster innovation. So, that's it for me on on the on the A Nopper. Uh because these are 206's, our ex parte rules apply. Uh so, I look forward to being pen pals. I'll see you all in the dockets. Uh and remember uh we welcome all comments, always. But, my favorite comments are when 
[00:33:01] stakeholders reach consensus and agreement among themselves before you file. Um I also want to touch on the PJM co-location order, uh which is E2. Uh I support today's order uh and uh it finds that PJM partially complied with our what we asked them to do in December, but I want to highlight two things. First of all, we need PJM to implement these new transmission services on reasonable timelines. Their proposal, 2029, that's 3 years away. And I don't know about you, but I don't think that meets the moment. I know this is compli- complicated stuff, but we need we need PJM to try again and put every effort to put these transmission services in place as soon as possible. Second, and um my my colleague Commissioner Chatterjee, I'm sure will will have more on this because it's she's been leading on this, but we asked a briefing question there on on the de minimis use of new non-firm transmission service. Uh and uh what should they pay beyond 
[00:34:01] regulation and Black Start to ensure that they're contributing to the cost of the transmission service and to our transmission system that that they rely on to get these services. We found today that we need more evidence to support this charge. Uh and that this is a situation that the commission will continue to mark monitor. And I really do believe that we should make sure that those who are using and benefiting from the transmission system, you should pay your fair share. Uh and so, I want again thank Commissioner Chatterjee for her leadership on this issue, and I encourage you to read her concurrence. Um next and I'm almost done here. Off the topic of large and co-located loads, MISO demand response uh I'm joining the chairman and my colleagues in accepting the proposed revisions into MISO's tariff intended to improve the real-time visibility into the efficient procurement and operation of demand-side resources. But with that said, I think several of MISO's tariff revisions may leave some demand response 
[00:35:00] resources benched at a moment when we need all the tools in the toolbox. And given the effective date, not for a little while here, MISO, you have more time to do more here. Uh I definitely think this is just and reasonable, but it's an opportunity uh to do more. And on that topic, I think it's worth highlighting, with all due respect to my state regulator colleagues, that there's also potential on the table within state jurisdiction to further leverage leverage demand-side tools in meeting the moment. Read more about that in my concurrence. And finally, the the chairman mentioned um NEPA and C2. Uh I'd like to highlight another step forward in in this commission's ongoing work to streamline the efficient and complete review of critical energy projects while meeting our obligations under NEPA. In C2, we note that the commission's moving away from a one-size-fits-all template when analyzing certain projects project impacts within the cumulative effects section of a NEPA document. 
[00:36:00] So, this commission instead, we're going to holistically evaluate how existing conditions and regional activities shape the affected environment. And I think this approach satisfies NEPA's statutory framework and the hard look obligation that we have, while ensuring also that our environmental reviews remain rigist rigorous, focused, and efficiently targeted. So, with that, back to you, chairman. &gt;&gt; Done yourself with two posters. Let's see what else. I don't see a big one behind you. &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; No. Commissioner See. Well, exciting day today for sure. Um thanks to everyone for being here. We're we're definitely excited about all of the work that's been done and what we're announcing today. So, before jumping into a lot of those, I'll start with a couple of themes that I have gone back to you for the past couple of months. And the first is to express some thank yous for the hospitality for trips and opportunities to get outside of DC. I said it before and I'll say it again, but there is no substitute for getting out of the office to see what it 
[00:37:00] actually takes to get steel in the ground and have power delivered reliable reliably to people across this country. So, um great thanks for a really wonderful trip out west since the last meeting. Um thankful to our state partners who welcomed me to Western New Mexico. Had some wonderful conversations there and wow, what a beautiful location. Um also thank you to Excel Energy in Colorado for the great site visits and discussions we had there that highlighted how much it matters to keep generation and transmission build out aligned to ensure power is reaching the consumers when and where it's needed. Also deeply appreciated both the staff and the researchers at the National Lab of the Rockies as they took time one afternoon to show us some of their cutting-edge research and where they're developing increasingly sophisticated tools specifically in the area of understanding how large loads interact with the grid before they actually have to plug in and and connect to the grid. That is critical work that is happening and so grateful um for for that effort and research that is critical to what we're doing today and what so many 
[00:38:00] others are doing around the country. And I'd also like to thank the boards of the RTOs and ISOs for some great conversations at the RTO ISO Council about what's working in different parts of the country and the work for all of us that's still to be done. On the topic of thank yous, I'd also like to take a moment to thank our staff as so many of us have done and I know all of us will be doing throughout today. When I took some time this morning to reflect on the huge efforts it took to bring today's orders to the table, as well as to keep the dozens and dozens of other orders flowing both before and after today, I'm just really impressed that public service is such a calling and a sacrifice. And we are so fortunate here as commissioners and as the commission to have a staff who say yes to that call every day and who give us their expert efforts and so many, many, many hours to keep power flowing reliably and affordability at a time when those goals are so critical. So, thank you. Thank you to our staff for all of their work. So, turning to today's items. Before we get to the main event, I will also 
[00:39:00] briefly want to talk about the PJM massive um order on co-location rehearing compliance and paper hearing that we're moving forward today. I I think when you see the length of the order and just the number and sheer complexity of the issues involved, it becomes really apparent that we and PJM and the stakeholders are really hard at work to quickly provide rules and certainty surrounding co-located arrangements. And one of the things that I think is so important about this process is the order focuses on optionality and flexibility. And then making sure that these historically new services within PJM go forward with just and reasonable rates. That's a really heavy undertaking and I'm really proud of the work and grateful for the work that so many commenters did when they gave us their perspectives, that PJM did, and that our staff did working through those issues. Uh it's also not lost on me that the fact that this is only one of the historic orders on deck today highlights the moment that we're in as a country and that we as a commission are committed to moving forward on all of these fronts at once. So, speaking of all fronts at once, I also want to highlight a couple of 
[00:40:00] certificate items that show our continued commitment as a commission to an area that is so important to me, which is streamlining natural gas permitting within our statutory mandate. I also want to talk about C2. I strongly support our efforts to, if you will, pardon a bad energy note nerd joke, to take a hard look at our NEPA analysis. It is really important for us to make sure that we are evaluating the record fully when it comes to evaluating projects in the public interest. But efficiency also means that we should not be taking on unnecessary or duplicative efforts, in this case stand-alone cumulative impacts analysis that the statute doesn't require. Being able to know what we are and are not required to do and being transparent about that is critical when it comes to efficiency and when it comes to legal durability. So I'm proud of that step the commission is taking today and look forward as we continue to be looking for opportunities to move quickly within our statutory mandate. I'd also like to briefly talk about C3, which is a relatively minor project where we're authorizing construction for 
[00:41:00] a project involving Cheniere's Creole Trail pipeline. And the reason I want to mention is cuz this is a project that's moving forward under the prior notice aspect of our blanket program. Now, while we're hard at work at the commission um working on further lining processes to that blanket program, this is an order that clarifies that a comment that isn't a protest should not defeat the program's efficiencies by kicking it to case-specific review. And I think as we keep working forward moving forward on our blanket program, there'll be more fireworks to use the chair's term in the coming months ahead on those efforts. Cases like this is an important reminder of how important it is to have clear and consistently applied rules. That clarity is what lets us get the balance right between considering appropriate input and not adding unnecessary delay to get needed infrastructure moving. So I'm glad for that effort today, too. All right, so with that moving to the main event. I am very glad that we're able to vote today and that the commission is moving forward on the show cause orders related 
[00:42:00] to large load interconnection. We need a grid that can meet the tremendous opportunities for American competitiveness that large load growth presents. And the record that has come into us at FERC since Secretary Wright's a number only confirms that a central part of that mission requires a regulatory structure that can get large load on online quickly, reliably, and at a reasonable cost. Now, the chair has already described this. I I don't have great visual aids in our happy to presentation, so I will not be spending more time talking through the details of this. So, I'll just highlight two aspects that I find really essential to today's decisions. The first is that we are focused on clear rules within a structure that embraces flexibilities from regional diversity. And the second is that we're keeping the main things at FERC the main things, reliability and critically affordability. So, on that first point, it is imperative that developers know what the rules are when it comes to large load interconnection, what's required, what to expect, and the time frames involved. But, creating rule set in amber serves 
[00:43:00] no one, especially because this is a fast-moving space and we need a framework that it can accommodate change and differences across the country and across different states and market setups. So, by embracing RTO-specific approach today, we're allowing for that clarity in rules, but still letting regions focus on their specific areas of concern within the overall framework that today's orders set out. We also want the regions to be able to move quickly through areas that apply differently or perhaps not at all or that they've already addressed, and also to take advantage of the flexibilities and efficiencies that their particular systems allow. Related to this idea of clarity within diversity, these orders also recognize how important the states are as indispensable partners in this task. Today's order affirms that the commission's authority extends only to those matters not subject to state regulation. And part of the strength of our approach today lies in recognizing the value of our shared federal-state responsibility in ensuring that the solutions we deploy across the country reflect what each of 
[00:44:02] us, the states and the federal agencies, bring to the table. I'm very grateful for the work that the states are doing and are still hard at work doing. We've seen so much of that highlighted in this record and many conversations we've had and and I am really hopeful that this order is going to complement those efforts. And I also think that we can continue to spur each other on to continue moving forward quickly and responsibly in this area. The second point is how today's order puts reliability and affordability at the forefront. I will leave to others to talk about the details of the operating requirements and other reliability specific aspects of the order, but I do want to highlight a couple of the areas where cost responsibility informs our steps today. It's undeniable that large load interconnection raises new questions about cost responsibility and financial risk. So today's order focuses on the cost recovery agreements involving the customers within the commission's jurisdiction to make sure that those arrangements are transparent and fair, particularly in circumstances where large loads may prove speculative. We're 
[00:45:02] aiming at streamline processes here that help ensure the right costs end up on the right bills. Related to this, the order is also very candid that FERC doesn't control every factor that influences retail rates. So in the orders, we try to give as many tools as we can to the states to assist in their frontline role when it comes to retail cost allocation. We want to ensure that they have a complete picture of FERC jurisdictional costs as they evaluate how new loads affect their retail customers. So I hope that the states will participate actively in the regional dockets to ensure that the final rules give them the transparency they need to do that critical job. I'm also proud of the order's focus on using technology and innovation to reduce costs and speed to interconnection. I believe that technology gives us real opportunities to meet large load demand faster and at lower cost. So specifically, where they make sense, alternative transmission technologies or grid enhancing technologies as they're also often called, they can unlock capacity more quickly than traditional 
[00:46:02] upgrades and can save tens or even hundreds of millions of dollars in infrastructure build out costs. So, today's order calls for regional rules that require considering ATTs and in circumstances where they may not be feasible and traditional upgrades prove the better options to explain why that's true. ATTs don't always fit the bill, yes, but when the stakes for reliability and affordability are this high, innovation should not be optional. So, in these and other areas that come forward as the regions take on the next steps in these dockets, I hope and expect to see more bold, practical proposals that keep reliability strong and affordability sound. This is not the last step, to be sure, when it comes to large order interconnection issues, but it's an important one today. And I'm proud that we're able to take it as a commission and my commitment, and I know my colleagues is as well, is to not letting up the gas as we bring these actions to their full end. Our country and our consumers demand nothing less. So, thank you so much for everyone who has made the efforts that we're voting on today possible. And with 
[00:47:01] that, I will turn it back to the chair. &gt;&gt; Very well spoken as usual and I I want to echo Rosner's sentiments that [clears throat] you really led on ATTs and you did a great service for all of us on that. So, thank you. Commissioner Chang. &gt;&gt; Great. Thank you, Madam Chair, and good morning, everyone. Uh it's a very exciting day. Uh I I'm not going to go through the details of the order. That's the benefit of going forth here. Um but I do want to thank so many people that made today possible, echoing my colleague's sentiment here. Uh not only the staff that have worked day and night for many, many weeks and months on this topic, but I also want to thank all the external parties who have devoted your resources to send in uh comments in the ANOPR and really some of them uh are very thoughtful. And and all the hours that you have spent with us in educating us, 
[00:48:01] uh, explaining to us your perspectives on this very important topic. So, um, the next phase, we really need a thorough record for each region, as you heard, that we are, um, conducting a show cause for all the RTO regions. Um, we need a thorough thorough record to make reasoned decisions here at FERC. And I want to make sure that you all of the stakeholders involved will work with not only us in sending comments, but with with the ISOs and RTOs as they prepare their filings with the show cause. Um, it is really critical for me and for my colleagues to have a full record of how you are reacting to the questions and the topics that were raising in the show cause documents. Um, I want to spend a little more time on three topics, and I don't have, you know, a plate here, so you'll just have to keep track because I don't articulate it in a 
[00:49:02] in a in a packet here. But first, we are balancing our desire to move quickly and decisively here today. But we also want to make sure that's balanced with our obligation to protect consumers. So, we address this most directly through our efforts in identifying mechanisms that will adequately mitigate the risk of undue cost shift among transmission customers. This is an essential task. We need better understanding of the costs related to integrating large loads and how that feed into our jurisdictional rates. I strongly support the effort in today's orders to improve transparency into the vital pieces of information on what infrastructure is induced by large loads. This will also help, as my colleagues have explained, how the states will be able to understand the 
[00:50:01] cost of transmission that might be related to the integration of large loads. We also need new innovative ideas on approaches to protect consumers and customers against cost shifts. And as I've explained, including a number of concurrences, bilateral agreements that provide transmission revenue contribution, not necessarily tied to the actual cost of providing the transmission service, um by themselves are not sufficient. So, I support the effort to cast a wide net today in our orders in understanding what kind of consumer protection approaches may work. So, even though there are already a few that have been uh approved and have gone through the commission in the past, I welcome other ideas and thoughtful comments in the dockets because we have already 
[00:51:00] informally met with parties that have other ideas of how to better protect consumers, and I think it's important to build a record on how other innovative ideas there might be. Second, the commission needs more information to understand the potential risks and reward rewards of extending the novel transmission services to new types of loads and regions. We did this, we required this in the PJM colocation docket, which I will discuss in a little bit uh later. But our hope is that these new transmission services will facilitate more efficient expansion and use of the grid alongside more efficient processes through which large loads can interconnect. However, we understand that these new transmission services may result in transmission providers running the system tighter than the past. I think, you know, there's some folks that have come in to meet with us that are actually designing 
[00:52:01] tools to to really operate the system in a tighter system in a tighter mode. And, you know, I'm generally supportive of efficient operations of the system, but running it tighter to assist closer to system limits may have unintended reliability implications. So, we want to build a record. We want to make sure that you have an opportunity to tell us and explain to us what the implications might be in in basically transferring these new transmission services to flexible loads or other loads. So, please do provide detailed input in how extending these transmission services, new transmission services, how they might affect existing customers, existing processes, and how the services might fit into the larger picture in each region, particularly how they might affect long-term planning, market operations, and potential reliability protection measures, and cost allocation. 
[00:53:03] Third, I would like to draw attention to the proposed requirement to evaluate alternative transmission technologies or ATT, and we all talked about that. ATTs, you've heard me say this before, can improve transmission system and protect customers from higher cost. Deployment of these technologies has not been really fast enough for my taste, and it is critical that the transmission owners take their role seriously in moving these types of projects out of the pilot stage into widespread adoption. This is the moment where we can save consumers money by deploying the most advanced technologies. If the US is going to lead in technology innovation, this is another area we should really lead in transmission technologies. Final thought on these orders, in pursuing a regional approach, we hope 
[00:54:01] that the adoption of solutions tailored to the needs of each specific system will be present will be present uh before us. To the to each of the RTOs and ISOs, we value your understanding of your own region and your systems, including implications of associated local policies and innovation solutions. The commission has already approved regional approaches this year. Um so we very much welcome proposals that are best fit for the regional needs. We need also ex- detailed explanation in the record as to why and how you're proposing to tailor the solutions to each region because of the local and uniques um situation. Again, I think I want to echo everyone else has said here. Our goal is not to disrupt the practices that work well in each region, but we want to make sure that we continue to improve the 
[00:55:01] processes to interconnect large loads. Moving on to E2 per- PJM's colocation. Um when we first initiated this process in December last year, I wrote separately to draw attention to commission's briefing question on potentially establishing a charge for customers that do not take any or take de minimus amount of transmission service. We offered this opportunity by offering new transmission services that are contract demand firm and non-firm transmission services. My concern at the time was that by implementation of these new transmission services, it might raise the risk of cost shifting to other customers because collocated generation and load, even if they take no transmission service, they are still relying on being synchronized to the system, and therefore the value of being 
[00:56:01] synchronized to that system is significant to the collocated generation and load. So, I'm going to be continue to be vigilant to this on this issue today. The order today concludes that the existing record, though, does not support the need of a charge at this time. Or establish how such a charge should be calculated. I think there were proposals in the record, but we don't have enough to go on to really understand the design feature of such a charge. Instead, the order concludes that insights from concrete experience with the use of these new transmission services or the choice to not use the transmission services will inform whether further action is needed. So, if for example, if collocated load use these new services, ultimately take meaningful transmission service and pay and contribute toward 
[00:57:01] the transmission costs, then the cost shifting concern that underpins this minimum charge concept would already be addressed. So, I think it's reasonable for us to continue to monitor how these transmission services will be used. In addition, the order directs PJM to publicly post information related to the use of the new transmission services. This information will allow us and the stakeholders to continue to monitor the potential for cost shifts, as well as the implementation implementation, and which customers taking these these tran new transmission services. So, I hope that um we will have another opportunity to address this in the future as we gain more experience and and uh data on how these new transmission services will be implemented in PJM and elsewhere. Turning to C3 on Eastern Gas, I write 
[00:58:00] separately on C C2, sorry. Did I say C3? C2. In that order, in addition to authorizing Eastern Gas to construct, operate, and maintain the Appalachian Reliability Project, the Commission addresses the inclusion of a separate uh addresses the inclusion of separate cumulative impact section in its environmental documents. We all have common interest in building valuable energy infrastructure and making sure that our decisions here are legally durable. I write separately to reinforce that even without a formal section in our environmental documents, the Commission has an obligation to consider the impacts of the projects on the areas in which they are located, and I will continue to adhere to that requirement going forward. I just want to touch I want to put a human touch to this topic. When I speak with the communities 
[00:59:00] that are affected by projects, and you know, I I worked on this when I worked for the state, where it's extremely challenging to even just build a substation. Well, you're not going to have power in the local region without a substation. So, I completely understand the frustration for industry to build the necessary infrastructure. And certainly, I am all for making sure that we build the valuable infrastructure, but I do want to put a human touch on this, which is when I speak to communities impacted by projects, you know, they tell me that they live in an environment where they don't think about specific projects. They think about the impact of all the air emissions and all the water pollutions in their neighborhood in the areas they live. So, you know, when we hear from commercial and recreational fishermen from areas already impacted by industrial development, they want to 
[01:00:00] know whether the conditions of the waterways they rely on for their livelihoods and way of life will be maintained or worsened. So, I write separately to emphasize that I think contextualizing project impact helps us reach more informed decisions about the projects before us, and it will essentially also it's also essential for them to be legally durable in our decision-making. I want to turn to E-6, MISO's demand side reform. And I have to say, this is extremely uh um interesting, but also challenging decision for me. I finally decided to dissent on today's E-6 um in which the commission accepts a package of long-standing MISO demand side reforms. Um in this filing, MISO proposes fundamental changes to the way that demand side resources are valued in the 
[01:01:01] markets. I generally support MISO's ongoing efforts to reform its demand side programs, including responding to the fraudulent actions from small group of actors that have, you know, undermined the confidence on for confidence in demand side participation. However, in this filing, I do not think that MISO has met its 205 burden to demonstrate that its proposal is just and reasonable and not duly discriminatory or preferential. I found the protesters' concerns to be very persuasive that MISO's proposal will unnecessarily disincentivize demand-side participation. And as I have said in many venues, demand-side resources, including flexible loads and behind-the-meter generation, play an important role in resource adequacy and meeting the resource needs of the current moment. 
[01:02:00] And when prices are high, we should allow demand-side to respond. So, um, you know, MISO recently cleared more than 13 GW of demand-side resources, including 4 GW of demand uh behind-the-meter generation. These are valuable resources, and I think everyone in the industry would recognize that. It is critical that MISO and other ISOs strike a reasonable balance that enables enables demand-side participation while holding those market participants accountable for their performance obligation, particularly during periods of system stress. I don't think MISO's filing struck a reasonable balance, and instead, it had excluded or devalued legitimate resources that are willing and able to provide critically reliable critical reliable and resource adequacy support. So, my preference would be to reject the filing with guidance to MISO to address the deficiencies and submit a 
[01:03:01] just and reasonable proposal. So, I hope this gives MISO some um guidance in perhaps improving its filing. So, with that, I want to turn back to you. &gt;&gt; All right. Thank you. Commissioner La Fleur. &gt;&gt; All right, seventh inning stretch. Um, look, I couldn't be prouder of the actions of the commission today. I know that we've undertaken this really bulky historic docket and we've done it with an exceptional amount of speed and accuracy and um, and we're going to compliment the staff in a little bit. Um, as I noted in my concurring statements in E7 through E12, today we are taking historic action to spur progress and innovation. Large loads are seeking to connect to our grid at an extraordinarily rapid pace. We must be ready with the new rules of the road. Having reviewed the thousands of pages of thoughtful comments submitted in the ANOPR, we are initiating individual show cause proceedings in each of the six 
[01:04:00] RTOs with blueprints for what those rules could look like. We expect that the responses in each proceeding will reflect the region's specific expertise and creative creativity in bringing tailored solutions to the table. I want to note that our actions today are are geared toward the RTOs and ISOs, but I know those not under an RTO or ISO need to also take heed. I encourage them to bring innovative filings before us, too. The first non-RTO or ISO actor, which brings us an actionable item, is entitled to one Miller Lite from my fridge with the caveat that it's left over from the Christmas party. &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; Um, so we have this unique quasi-judicial authority under the Federal Power Act. And today we're engaging those to act with more speed, more durability, and more precision than we would get with our proposed rule making. As always, reliability and affordability are top of mind. We are moving toward we're moving toward the adoption and appropriate study procedures and operational requirements to ensure that large loads can connect 
[01:05:00] safely and reliably. Likewise, we expect to see with transparency and cost recovery mechanisms to ensure that we, in partnership with the state regulators, can protect customers from cost shifts attributable to these new large loads. States need to take swift action to ensure their retail large load tariffs fit well with these proceedings and protect ratepayers. Urge the RTOs and ISOs to work their respective state commissions to ensure customers are protected via large load retail tariffs and other mechanisms and to propose solutions to FERC that dovetail with these efforts on the retail level. These orders appropriately call for accelerated interconnection procedures and consideration of alternative transmission tech nologies in a very broad sense, both of which are aimed at reducing network upgrade costs and saving money for the American people. Today's orders are incredibly measured approach, which take into account the concerns of our state partners at the state commissions. But does the commission have the legal authority to exercise jurisdiction as outlined in Hanover? I remind you that the Federal Power Act 
[01:06:00] gives the commission plenary jurisdiction over quote the electric energy in interstate commerce, unquote. On appeal of order 888, New York argued that retail transactions are subject to only state regulation, but the Supreme Court made very clear that the electric industry has changed since the FPA FPA has been enacted, at which time the electricity universe was neatly divided into spheres of retail versus wholesale sales. This was back in 2002, so SCOTUS if SCOTUS believes things were different back then, you can imagine what they might believe today. Uh the court agreed with the commission that no statutory language limits FERC's transmission jurisdiction to the wholesale market, although the statute does limits first FERC's sales jurisdictions to that market. FERC has also FERC also has jurisdiction under practices affecting rates, but I need not lecture this group on every jurisdictional vehicle here today, given that I bat clean up and there's a lot of downward pressure to keep things short. While the commission has refrained from exercising the full extent of its transmission jurisdiction in the past, we will not hesitate to do so if our hand is forced where so much is at 
[01:07:01] stake. I shared this in an I shared this in an international well, a interview earlier this month um that I've often been frustrated over the years by edicts passed on from DC, which forced policies and upon the states. And now that I am the federal bureaucrat, um it's kind of like Frodo holding the ring and thinking, "Why shouldn't I make these decisions for the states?" But then I realized, "Oh, no, I just made a Lord of the Rings reference and and I'm becoming the legal nerd that Judy Chang prophesies would occur." &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; But I want to underscore time is of the essence. We need to win this AI race. The stakes could not be higher. I urge each RTO to heed our preliminary findings and submit workable solutions. If at the next stage of this proceeding we conclude that an RTO tariff is unjust and unreasonable, and we are not satisfied with the proposed solution, we'll we will exercise our full extent of our jurisdictional authority when dictating a rule for them. I want to see meaningful returns on these actions as quickly as possible. If a filer plans on substantially deviating from our direction, they're better be 
[01:08:00] damn sure that they have better ideas in place to replace those ideas. Um I don't want a repeat of December's PJM co-location return, which brings me to E2. In E2, we address issues on rehearing, compliance, and briefing in response to the commission's December order addressing co-location loads in PJM. Like E7 through E12, this proceeding began with an order to show cause, and we've made considerable progress. There's still work to be done as evidenced by the additional compliance directives in the order. But because of our work since December, PJM is now ahead of the game. The other five RTOs would do well to look to this order as a model for co-located load arrangements and for developing new transmission services for those arrangements. We recognize this is a busy time for PJM. We look forward to further compliance filings in this proceeding as well as its response to the show cause order in E7, which we hope will include one or more 205 filings. We also hope to see PJM act quickly and decisively consistent with the desired outcome of the stakeholder and governance reforms, which will be discussed next month at the July 23rd technical conference. I'm 
[01:09:01] very encouraged by PJM's um posture here and they've been taking these issues very seriously. I want to applaud them for their posture to date. We've had several progressive conversations and I'm encouraged and optimistic going into that hearing. I know that when we hear technical conference or policy statement here at FERC, the FERC watchers are hearkened back to long monologues inspiring many yawns blocks of speakers. While I cannot promise this experience will be yawn free, I am treating this technical conference as a mediation. By the time we close our doors on that day, I'd like the framework for meaningful governance reform to be hammered out with only work in the margins to remain. PJM states and stakeholders need to come to the table with reasonable settlement authority and their acceptable conditions need to be well considered in advance of that meeting. If states are wanting additional skin in the game, I expect them to commit to solving a suite of issues in their own jurisdictions which have contributed to the problems in the region. Each group is going to have a price of admission for seats at the table. We all need to own our respective failures and 
[01:10:00] shortcomings if we're going to support PJM on this new course. If PJM stays on course, they will fail. This is unacceptable to American people and we won't let that happen. In C2, we are approving Eastern Gas's Appalachian Reliability Project will provide 550,000 decatherms per day of firm natural gas transportation service in order to meet increased national demand while reducing the need to secure seasonal and short-term capacity to meet winter heating needs. Not that I'm keeping count, but this brings the total pipeline capacity approved while the chairman and I have been at the commission to 5,693,155 decatherms per day of firm transportation. &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; I wanted to highlight the case for another reason. Since day one, I've repeated that we have we have focused on ways in which we can streamline our NEPA reviews as our commissioners have stated. This order highlights one area that is ripe for change, the cumulative effects section. I know every member of the environmental bar, which I count myself in, shutters when they hear cumulative effects. Um, it has been a problematic over a 
[01:11:00] past number of decades in which NEPA has morphed into a significant procedural roadblock, divorced from the statutory text and common sense. NEPA contains no reference to the term cumulative effects and CEQ has since rescinded its regulations defining such effects. Simply put, the procedural exercise of identifying a distinct and separate category of cumulative effects is not required and frankly the terminology has become very unhelpful. In the future proceedings will begin implementing changes to the way we continue to evaluate projects against their environmental backdrop as is appropriate and correct. In such a way that ensures and informs the analysis in the commission's evaluation of the project at hand rather than getting bogged down in the never-ending inquiries about where to draw the NEPA line. But to be clear, this modified analysis will continue to evaluate information on other activities in the vicinity of the project to help the commission contextualize and understand how the project will affect the environment to Commissioner Chen's point. Protecting the environment is vitally important, but we will continue to fulfill our NEPA requirements under NEPA, but do so in a 
[01:12:01] way that is consistent with its textual focus on the proposed action as outlined by a unanimous and bipartisan Supreme Court in Seven County. Aligning our approach with a judgment from the highest court of land will ensure legal durability and certainty for future cases to come. Finally, I know everyone likes to hear the word finally. Turning to C3 in my backyard of South Louisiana, um, another way to limit permitting delays is to focus and enforce the rules that are already on the books. Historically, the commission has taken a broad view of what it deems to be a protest in the context of prior notice applications under a blanket certificate program. Notwithstanding clear regulations that prescribe and indeed require that a particular form of protest be used, treating comments to prior notice application as protest has caused month-long delays for blanket certificates. As we explained in C3 on today's agenda, going forward, filings that do not meet the commission's protest requirement will not be considered as protests by the commission and will not necessitate a commission order. The protest requirement is not 
[01:13:00] burdensome and the regulation provides a template for stakeholders to use. I hope today's order will provide some regulatory certainty to those stakeholders in future proceedings. Thank you. &gt;&gt; Thank you. Before we move to the consent agenda, I wanted to acknowledge my advisor CC Coffee who's behind me to my left and I'll make my own nerd joke. My son just turned six and we're watching a lot of Star Wars and CC is my Yoda or maybe she's my Grogu because she's only out of law school a few years, but on large load she has shown a tenacity and a command of the technical issues and the law that well exceed her experience and CC, I see your life force in between every line of every order that we're issuing today. So, I I wanted to tell you how grateful I am for me and for our country that you're on my team. So, thank you. THANK YOU VERY [applause] MUCH. 
[01:14:02] MADAM SECRETARY, WE'RE READY TO GO TO THE CONSENT AGENDA. &gt;&gt; Thank you, Madam Chair. Since the issuance of the Sunshine Act notice on June 11th, 2026, items E7, E8, E9, E10, E11, and E12 have been added to this morning's agenda. And item E1 has been stricken from this morning's agenda. Your consent agenda for this morning is as follows. Electric items, E2, E3, E4, E5, and E6. Miscellaneous item, M1. Hydro item, H1. Certificates items, C1, C2, and C3. As to E2, Commissioner Chang is concurring with a separate statement. As to E6, Commissioner Rosner is concur- concurring with a separate statement, and Commissioner Chang is dissenting 
[01:15:00] with a separate statement. As to C2, Commissioner Chang is concurring with a separate statement. We will now take a vote on this morning's consent agenda items. The vote begins with Commissioner LaCert. &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; Commissioner Chang. &gt;&gt; Noting my concurrence on E2 and C2, and my dissent on E6, I vote I. &gt;&gt; Commissioner See. &gt;&gt; I. &gt;&gt; Commissioner Rosner. &gt;&gt; Noting my concurrence on E6, I vote I. &gt;&gt; And Chairman Sweat. &gt;&gt; I. Madam Secretary, we can now move to the item on the discussion agenda. &gt;&gt; Thank you, Madam Chairman. Today's discussion and presentation item will be items E7, E8, E9, E10, E11, and E12 together. 
[01:16:00] The RTO ISO show cause orders. There will be a presentation by Sarah Leyden from the Office of the General Counsel and Emily Chen from the Office of Energy Market Regulation. They're accompanied by Jason Feuerstein from the Office of Electric Reliability. There will be a PowerPoint presentation for this item. You may begin. [clears throat] &gt;&gt; Uh good morning, Chairman Sweat and Commissioners. Items E7, E8, E9, E2, E11, and E12 are orders initiating show cause proceedings. Next slide, please. As you know, the United States is currently experiencing unprecedented demand for electricity due in large part to the rapid growth of data centers. The largest of these data centers can require nearly a gigawatt of power or more, meaning that a single hyperscale facility can have the same demand as a major metropolitan area. The size of these data centers and the speed at which they seek interconnection with the electric grid present 
[01:17:01] unprecedented challenges for our transmission system. America's regional grid operators, called RTOs or ISOs, have in some cases struggled to make the reforms necessary to ensure that these data centers can quickly and efficiently access the transmission system and to ensure that associated costs are fairly allocated. In October 2025, the Secretary of Energy issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking or ANOPR, asking the Commission to consider reforms to ensure the timely and orderly interconnection of large loads. The Commission received and considered over 3,500 pages of public comment in the docket for the ANOPR. In April, the Commission issued an order noting that it agreed with the Secretary on the urgent need for reform and that had it had already taken numerous actions consistent with the ANOPR. Today, the Commission will initiate a landmark proceeding to transform how grid operators and utilities interconnect and serve large energy users. These actions are designed to ensure that that consumers nationwide continue to enjoy reliable and affordable power 
[01:18:00] as even as demand soars and technology evolves. Next slide, please. The vehicle for the Commission's reforms is a procedure known as a show cause order. These orders, which are issued under section 206 of the Federal Power Act, allow the Commission to direct RTOs and ISOs to explain why their existing market rules, known as tariffs, remain just and reasonable or to propose tariff changes to address the Commission's concerns. Today, the Commission will be voting on six separate draft show cause orders, one to each of the grid operators: PJM, MISO, SPP, CAISO, ISO New England, and NYISO. The draft show cause orders are tailored to each specific region, and the draft show cause orders differ from one another in important respects. The draft show cause orders preliminarily find that these grid operators' existing tariffs appear to be unjust and unreasonable because they do not adequately address the challenges associated with the integration of large and co-located loads onto the transmission system. More specifically, the draft show cause orders preliminary preliminarily find that the tariffs appear to lack 
[01:19:01] provisions addressing five categories of reform, which we'll discuss next. Next slide, please. The draft show cause orders focus on five categories of reform that must be addressed. First, the show cause orders preliminarily find that each RTO ISO tariff may not be just and reasonable without a clear process for transmission customers to request transmission service on behalf of data centers and other large loads. More specifically, the draft show cause orders find that exist the existing tariffs appear to lack provisions adequately addressing the application process, study procedures, and ongoing operational requirements that apply to transmission customers serving large load. Second, the draft show cause orders preliminarily find that each RTO ISO tariff may not be just and reasonable without tariff provisions that prevent protect against the risk of unfair cost shifting among transmission customers. The draft show cause orders explain that each RTO ISO may need to develop its own form of an agreement that requires minimum payments by transmission customers serving large loads. 
[01:20:01] The draft show cause orders also explain that each RTO ISO may need to provide additional transparency into the cost of network upgrades triggered by these transmission service requests. This transparency would provide visibility to all stake- stakeholders and should help state regulators protect residential customers from rising electric bills. Third, the show the draft show cause orders preliminarily find that each RTO ISO may need to clarify their tariffs to address how loads can co-locate with generating facilities or make use of behind the meter generation resources. Fourth, the draft show cause orders preliminarily find that each RTO ISO may need to provide new transmission services to transmission customers taking service on behalf of flexible large loads, which are those that are willing and able to limit their use of the transmission system. Fifth and finally, the draft show cause orders preliminarily find that each RTO ISO may need to create a pathway for generating facilities that plan to serve electrically proximate large loads or large co-located loads to be studied on a more more limited basis. 
[01:21:00] Uh next slide, please, and I'll turn it over to my colleague Emily to continue the presentation. &gt;&gt; Importantly, these proposed reforms are designed to allow for regional variation in the approaches taken by each RTO or ISO in response to the draft show cause orders. The draft show cause orders acknowledge that the RTOs and ISOs are structured differently from one another and face unique challenges in meeting soaring demand from data centers. As such, the draft show cause orders recognize that a one-size-fits-all solution may not work for integrating large loads onto the transmission system. The draft show cause orders provide for an appropriate degree of regional flexibility to ensure that the commission's proposed approach will help to ensure a reliable, efficient, and fair process for transmission customers. For example, the draft show cause order to SPP recognizes the innovative high-impact large load and high-impact large load generation assessment or HIL 
[01:22:01] and HELGA processes that the commission approved earlier this year. And notes that the commission expects that SPP will be able to demonstrate that it has resolved several of the commission's concerns regarding other RTOs and ISOs' tariffs. The draft show cause cause orders preliminarily find that the other RTOs and ISOs appear to lack clear and consistent provisions regarding an application and study process that will address the unique challenges associated with large loads. Similarly, the draft show cause order to PJM recognizes that PJM is already addressing co-location arrangements through a separate FPA section 206 proceeding. However, the draft show cause orders for the other five RTOs and ISOs make preliminary findings regarding the apparent lack of clear tariff provisions applicable to co-location arrangements. The draft show cause orders also acknowledge ongoing stakeholder efforts 
[01:23:02] by the RTOs and ISOs and specifically encourage the RTOs and ISOs to make FPA section 205 filings to address the Commission's concerns. Next slide, please. On timing, today's draft show cause orders require the RTOs and ISOs and certain transmission owners to respond within 60 days of the date of the order to justify why their tariffs remain just and reasonable without certain provisions addressing the integration of large loads, including data centers and manufacturing facilities, or to propose tariff changes to accomplish these same goals. Moreover, the draft show cause orders direct the RTOs and ISOs and the transmission owners to provide further briefing on several questions within 60 days of the date of the order. The draft show cause orders also direct the RTOs and ISOs to file informational reports within 30 days of the date of 
[01:24:00] the order on how they intend to ensure that adequate generation will be available to serve existing and new large loads. The draft show cause orders also allow the RTOs and ISOs and transmission owners to request an advance of all or part of the order, including the deadline to respond, within 45 days of the date of the order. Interested parties may respond to the RTOs and ISOs and transmission owners filings within 30 days. Next slide, please. The Commission is proceeding via show cause orders because doing so will allow the Commission to quickly address a pressing need for reform in the RTO and ISO regions, while at the same time building on the progress that some RTOs and ISOs have already made. Staff analysis shows that today's draft show cause orders will affect 200 million Americans in over 30 states and the District of Columbia. The regions affected by the draft show 
[01:25:00] cause orders cover nearly 2/3 of electricity load served pursuant to Commission jurisdictional rates. While today's draft show cause orders address only RTO and ISO regions, the Commission is leaving open the ANOPR docket for further potential action. The Commission also encourages public utilities in other regions to file FPA section 205 proposal. This concludes our presentation. Thank you, Chairman and Commissioners. &gt;&gt; Thank you so much. I know that you all were critical to this effort and there are people not at the table today, but I'm actually shocked to see particularly Sarah is only one person and still alive because of the work that you have done for us. I People criticize the federal government all the say we're slow, we don't move, we don't work hard, but you are a testament that that is not 
[01:26:00] true and and all of the people at this agency for that matter, but I am so proud to have you on our staff. I'm so proud of this team and what you're doing today for our country and I'm really grateful for all of the hard work that you've put into it. You all are so smart and so hard working and it's been a real joy to watch you work and I hope that you take a much-needed break now and I will authorize whatever vacation you're taking. &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; Um I don't have any questions, but do any of my colleagues? &gt;&gt; No questions. I think we've already asked you hundreds of questions over the past couple months. So no more. But I just say to Emily, Jason, and the bigger team, and all the people who review the work, I just I just want to echo the chairman's thanks. &gt;&gt; Commissioner Christie? Same for me. When we talk about how exciting and fast-moving this time is, what that really translates to is real hours from real people. And thank you. Thank you for all of those hours that you all have spent. And those of you on 
[01:27:00] the teams who weren't at the table, too. We're so incredibly grateful. Thank you for all of your expertise digging into the thousands of pages of the record here, all of the hundreds of questions, as Commissioner Rossler mentioned, that you have fielded from all of our offices. We're so grateful for your work and so are the American people. Commissioner Chatterjee? &gt;&gt; Yes, Sarah, Emily, Jason, thank you so much for all your work and the entire team that supports you. But mostly, I thank you for bearing with us, bearing with the commissioners and our advisers with thousands and thousands of questions and uh dialogues and edits. You know, sometimes we get stuck on single words and single sentences. So I really, really appreciate your patience with us and educating us, helping us get to where we are today. So very much appreciate you and all the staff member that worked with you. &gt;&gt; Commissioner LaCert? 
[01:28:00] &gt;&gt; Reiterate everything everyone already said. Thank you. I know you've done the American people a great service through all of your work. You should be very proud. Um I can say that I've been many places in the federal government and the staff here at FERC is far and away the the top notch, the best, the cream of the crop. And you guys are continuing to prove it. So, I can only promise a one-week moratorium on questions from me. &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; Well, we've already taken a vote, right? &gt;&gt; No, we haven't. &gt;&gt; Oh, okay. Excuse me. &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; I'm messing everything up. Well, please proceed. &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; We'll now take a vote on items E7, E8, E9, E10, E11, and E12 together. For each of these items, Chairman Sweatt, Commissioner Rosner, Commissioner See, Commissioner Chang, and Commissioner LaFleur are each concurring with separate statements. The vote begins with Commissioner LaFleur. &gt;&gt; Noting my concurrences in E7 through 
[01:29:00] E12, I vote yes. &gt;&gt; Commissioner Chang. &gt;&gt; Noting my concurrence on E7 through E12, I vote yes. &gt;&gt; Commissioner See. &gt;&gt; Noting my concurrence on E7 through E12, I vote yes. &gt;&gt; Commissioner Rosner. &gt;&gt; Okay, same here. Noting my concurrences on E7 through E12, I vote aye. &gt;&gt; And Chairman Sweatt. &gt;&gt; Ditto. Aye. &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; I was supposed to note my concurrence on all of the items as well. &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; Is that a new procedural vehicle you're launching? &gt;&gt; Yeah, yeah. It's very formal. Thank you. &gt;&gt; Thank you. Thank you. &gt;&gt; Okay, before we close today, I want to highlight a new face on my team on the back bench. On my right, Chris Smith joins us from Anga. He is handling everything related to projects in hydropower, and we expect Congress to keep him very busy. Chris 
[01:30:00] has already shown himself to be an excellent lawyer. I'm so grateful that he's here, and I really hope he's not questioning his decision to join us after this meeting agenda. Lastly, as we're approaching our nation's 250th anniversary, I know that Americans across the country are concerned about affordability and so are we. Utility bills can be a major source of stress. I experienced this first hand growing up and although only 1/3 of the cost of consumers see on their bill in general is regulated by this commission, I know that many Americans are increasingly concerned about the interconnection of large loads and data centers will increase their bills and that stress. As chairman, I am taking extremely seriously the mission that Congress has entrusted for to ensure that rates are reasonable and that Americans pay their fair share or less, depending on the arrangements in front of them. This mission is what motivates 
[01:31:00] the unprecedented transparency and protection that we are providing for rate payers with our actions today. In closing, my message to the hardworking Americans who may be concerned about what we're doing, I can assure you that my colleagues and I will protect you and we are not going to let you down as we continue to evaluate the proposals coming before us that could affect you. And I'll open it to my colleagues for any final comments. Commissioner Rosner. &gt;&gt; Well said, nothing here. &gt;&gt; Commissioner See. Commissioner Chang. &gt;&gt; I just want to thank you, Chair, for your leadership and working with us as well as all of your advisors working with all of our advisors and of course staff to get us to today. Thank you very much. &gt;&gt; Thank you very much. Commissioner LeSart. &gt;&gt; Ditto. &gt;&gt; Okay, that concludes today's meeting. I hope everyone has a safe and happy 4th of July. 
[01:32:00] &gt;&gt; Oh. &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; Is that the right way to hold it?
