Concurring statement of Commissioner/Chairman Rosner — RM26-4 / EL26 show cause orders, June 18, 2026.
Verbatim from the OCR'd order text (canonical copy: PJM, e-7-pjm-el26-67-000.txt; largely common across the six orders, with per-order tailoring).

ROSNER, Commissioner, concurring:


The electric industry is in the midst of changes not seen in a generation.
Compared to more traditional load growth, the large loads seeking to connect to the grid
today are larger, sometimes by orders of magnitude, and more concentrated.  They also
exhibit different operational characteristics, such as the ability to quickly change their
energy consumption, sometimes in seconds.  Often, these large loads seek to connect to
the grid as quickly as possible.  And because of these dynamics, large loads are rapidly
driving the need for new transmission infrastructure and energy supply.  This creates new
challenges that, if unaddressed, could jeopardize the reliability and affordability of the
grid on which we all depend.

Today, we are taking an important step toward addressing these challenges.  We
are opening a dialogue with each of the six RTO/ISOs on a series of reforms that are
tailored to address the unique reliability and affordability challenges posed by large load
growth and the infrastructure buildout needed to serve dramatically growing demand.
Informed by the record developed in response to the Secretary of Energy’s October 2025
ANOPR,1 and by innovative proposals that stakeholders have filed with the Commission
under FPA section 205, today’s orders are aimed at ensuring that the grid remains reliable
and affordable for all customers, especially residential customers.  It is also crucial that
we unlock the immense economic opportunity that once-in-a-generation growth
represents.  While each order’s specific focus varies according to the progress that each
RTO/ISO has made, our actions today fit broadly into four key pillars that, taken
together, provide a foundation for durable reform.  Today, we are: (1) Protecting
Consumers, (2) Safeguarding Reliability, (3) Enhancing Transparency, and (4) Fostering
Innovation (see Figure 1).  I write separately to explain how.

1 U.S. Dep’t of Energy, Secretary of Energy Chris Wright, Direction that the
Commission Initiate Rulemaking Procedures and Proposal Regarding the Interconnection
of Large Loads Pursuant to the Secretary’s Authority Under Section 403 of the
Department of Energy Organization Act (Oct. 23, 2025).


--- PAGE 91 ---
Docket No. EL26-67-000
- 3 -


*****

Protecting Consumers:  Today’s orders include key protections that promote
affordability.  First, today’s orders require “Cost Recovery Agreements”, which are
designed to ensure that large loads pay their fair share of the costs incurred to serve them,
regardless of whether the large load comes online as planned.  Thus, if new infrastructure
is built to accommodate a data center, and that data center doesn’t show up, residential
customers are not left on the hook to pay the costs.  Cost Recovery Agreements prevent
those costs from being shifted to residential customers.  Depending on how they are
structured, Cost Recovery Agreements can also address the potentially uneven pacing of
new infrastructure costs, where grid upgrade costs may hit customer bills before the large
load is fully online and energized.  Data centers have committed to paying their own
way.2  Today, with “Cost Recovery Agreements,” we are taking steps to ensure that those
commitments are honored.  I note, however, that the door remains open to other creative,
regionally-specific ideas to protect consumers.  If there are other ways to accomplish that
goal, I welcome those proposals.

Another win for consumers is requiring RTO/ISOs to consider grid enhancing
technologies (GETs), including dynamic line ratings, when adding new large loads to the
grid.  GETs are technologies that squeeze more juice out of the existing grid, reducing the
need for expensive upgrades and speeding up the time connect.  Ensuring that RTO/ISOs
consider GETs in the planning process—and if GETs are not used, explain why—not
only helps new large loads get connected more quickly, but is also a commonsense step
towards saving all consumers money.  Put differently, today’s orders will help us
understand if we are leaving efficiencies on the table, an outcome we cannot afford.

Safeguarding Reliability:  Today’s orders safeguard reliability.  They help ensure
that RTO/ISOs use study procedures and operational requirements that reflect large
loads’ unique characteristics and the reliability impacts of connecting them to the grid.
Those novel characteristics and reliability impacts are well-documented, and it is not
clear if existing study procedures or operational requirements account for them.  Clear,
comprehensive, and specifically tailored study procedures and operational requirements
are needed, such as enhanced data reporting and telemetry to increase visibility into how
these loads interact with the grid, and today’s orders represent progress towards this goal.

Finally, although not part of today’s orders, I want to highlight NERC’s ongoing
efforts to establish registration criteria for large computational loads and to develop
reliability standards.3  NERC’s goal is to finish the first phase of this critical work this

2 See Proclamation No. 11014, 91 Fed. Reg. 11439 (Mar. 4, 2026).
3 NERC, Large Loads Action Plan Q1 2026 Update (Apr. 2026),
https://www.nerc.com/globalassets/initiatives/large-loads-action-plan/llap-quarterly-



--- PAGE 92 ---
Docket No. EL26-67-000
- 4 -


year.  It is essential that NERC meet this deadline.  I encourage all stakeholders to
participate in NERC’s process.

Enhancing Transparency:  Today’s orders provide regulators—the Commission
and, critically, our state partners—and customers with data on how connecting large
loads to the grid affects bills.  Today’s orders embody a commonsense approach: if a
Network Upgrade is built to connect a large load to the grid, consumers should know who
that upgrade was built for and what it cost.

Transparency is important because “who pays?” has been and continues to be a
fraught and contentious question for large load interconnection.  Stakeholders, including
state regulators and the ratepayers that they represent, must know the costs, for whom
they are being incurred, and how they are being allocated, to know that everyone is
paying their fair share.  Today’s orders ensure that this information is public, accessible,
and clear.  State regulators in more than half of the country have enacted large load
tariffs.4  Our action today helps them as they continue their critically important work.

The Commission’s action today also addresses speculative load interconnection
requests, which clog up load interconnection queues, divert resources, and distort
forecasts.  Under current rules, data centers can (and are incentivized to) “shop around”
their prospective projects with different utilities to identify the fastest and cheapest
location to connect.  This wastes time and resources studying projects that are not real.
Worse yet, it can inflate expected load growth by modeling projects that do not
materialize, leading to double counting, inaccurate market signals, and unnecessarily high
prices for consumers.  Today, we target speculative projects by establishing escalating
readiness requirements for distinct phases of the study process to deter duplicative or
speculative requests for transmission service.  I strongly encourage RTO/ISOs to pursue
other improvements to load forecasts, such as using objective screening criteria like
physical site control, to ensure that the data used to plan the grid is as accurate as
possible.5

update-q1-2026.pdf.
4 See, e.g., National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners
Supplemental Comments at 2-6; Edison Electric Institute Supplemental Comments at
App. 9-13.
5 See Comm’r David Rosner, Letter to the RTOs/ISOs on Large Load Forecasting
(Sept. 18, 2025), https://www.ferc.gov/news-events/news/chairman-rosners-letter-
rtosisos-large-load-forecasting.


--- PAGE 93 ---
Docket No. EL26-67-000
- 5 -



Fostering Innovation:  As I have said, to meet the moment, “a business-as-usual
approach . . . will not suffice.”6  Building new infrastructure is difficult and costly, which
delays efforts to connect large loads to the grid quickly, reliably, and cost effectively.
This is doubly true when generation and load are planned and studied separately.
Today’s orders push beyond this status quo.

First, today’s orders promote flexible transmission services—that is, non-firm
service to a co-located load that is willing and able to limit withdrawals from the grid—in
every RTO/ISO (see Figure 2).  As we explained when we first created these
transmission services in PJM for co-located loads, customers willing to embrace
flexibility can reduce the need for Network Upgrades and generating capacity to serve a
co-located load, which speeds up connecting to the grid and reduces costs for the co-
located load as well as other retail customers.

Second, today’s orders recognize that extending these same transmission services
to large loads that are not co-located but that may also be willing to limit their
withdrawals from the grid can unlock even more efficiency.  Just as for co-located loads,
legalizing flexible transmission service options for more large load customers can speed
interconnection, avoid constructing unnecessary transmission upgrades, reduce strain on
the grid, and make power bills cheaper for everyone.

Finally, today’s orders embrace yet another innovation.  Load and generation need
not be co-located to reduce the number of Network Upgrades; in other words, literal co-
location is not the only way to facilitate faster, more efficient, and more cost-effective
connections to the grid.  Rather, where a large load and an associated generator are
electrically proximate (i.e., close together) and studied together, the reliability impacts on
the grid may be more limited than if the load and generator are studied separately.  Just
like with co-location, more limited impacts on the grid mean, all else equal, fewer
Network Upgrades, which makes connecting to the grid faster, more efficient, and
cheaper for both the large load and the associated generator.  That last point is key.  To
add new supply to the grid, we must create incentives for “Bring Your Own New
Generation.”  Today’s orders make BYONG faster and more efficient.

SPP has been a leader in showing how to push beyond the status quo.  With its
innovative HILLGA proposal, approved by the Commission in January,7 SPP leveraged
the opportunity for speed and efficiency by studying load and generation together, and by
creating a limited, expedited interconnection service to connect faster.  By matching the
generator’s output to the electrically proximate large load’s demand, the impacts to the

6 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 193 FERC ¶ 61,217 (2026), (Rosner, Comm’r,
concurring) at P 3.
7 See Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 194 FERC ¶ 61,031 (2026).


--- PAGE 94 ---
Docket No. EL26-67-000
- 6 -


grid are less than they otherwise would be, minimizing the need for time-consuming and
costly Network Upgrades needed to connect.  HILLGA is one solution that works for
SPP, but today’s orders direct other regions to follow SPP’s lead in ways that work for
them.  Today’s orders add a key tool by ensuring that all RTO/ISOs can study load and
generation together.
*****

The Commission’s action today is an important step forward, but the Commission
cannot accomplish this work alone.  States are essential partners in this work.  The
Commission’s actions here respect the long-standing jurisdictional line between federal
and state authority provided by Congress and repeatedly affirmed by the Supreme Court.
States retain exclusive jurisdiction to allocate the costs of FERC-jurisdictional
transmission charges among their retail ratepayers, including co-located loads.  States
also hold the keys to energy infrastructure permits, so we rely on their decisions to ensure
that needed transmission and generation get built.  At a time when some large loads are
retail customers that can consume as much energy as a small city, it is imperative that we
work within our respective jurisdictions, but that we collaborate. I look forward to
continued collaboration.

Today’s orders begin an important dialogue with RTO/ISOs.  As a potential next
step, today’s orders invite RTO/ISOs to respond by submitting proposals under FPA
section 205.  I cannot encourage this enough.  I also encourage public utilities outside of
RTO/ISOs across the country to do the same.  The electric industry is rapidly evolving
with regions experiencing and addressing these challenges in different ways.  Many of
the examples on which the actions in today’s orders are based on stakeholders thinking
creatively to develop solutions, and I welcome other new, innovative, and regionally
tailored proposals that build on the four key pillars set forth today:  (1) Protecting
Consumers, (2) Safeguarding Reliability, (3) Enhancing Transparency, and (4) Fostering
Innovation.  Only by working together can we rise to the occasion and meet this once-in-
a-generation moment to deliver the reliable and affordable energy on which we all
depend.  It will not be easy, but I remain optimistic and look forward to the path ahead.
For these reasons, I respectfully concur.



________________________
David Rosner
Commissioner





--- PAGE 95 ---

Figure 1


--- PAGE 96 ---

Figure 2



--- PAGE 97 ---

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION

PJM Interconnection, L.L.C.
AEP Appalachian Transmission Company, Inc.
AEP Indiana Michigan Transmission Company, Inc.
AEP Kentucky Transmission Company, Inc.
AEP Ohio Transmission Company, Inc.
AEP West Virginia Transmission Company, Inc.
Allegheny Electric Cooperative, Inc.
American Transmission Systems, Incorporated
Appalachian Power Company
Atlantic City Electric Company
Baltimore Gas and Electric Company
Commonwealth Edison Company
Commonwealth Edison Company of Indiana, Inc.
Dayton Power and Light Company
Delmarva Power & Light Company
Duke Energy Kentucky, Inc.
Duke Energy Ohio, Inc.
Duquesne Light Company
Essential Power Rock Springs, LLC
Hudson Transmission Partners, LLC
Indiana Michigan Power Company
Jersey Central Power & Light Company
Kentucky Power Company
Keystone Appalachian Transmission Company
Kingsport Power Company
Linden VFT, LLC
Mid-Atlantic Interstate Transmission, LLC
Monongahela Power Company
Neptune Regional Transmission System, LLC
NextEra Energy Transmission MidAtlantic Indiana, Inc.
Ohio Power Company
Ohio Valley Electric Corporation
Old Dominion Electric Cooperative
PECO Energy Company
PPL Electric Utilities Corporation
The Potomac Edison Company
Potomac Electric Power Company
Public Service Electric and Gas Company
Rockland Electric Company
Docket No. EL26-67-000



--- PAGE 98 ---
Docket No. EL26-67-000
- 2 -


Silver Run Electric, LLC
Trans-Allegheny Interstate Line Company
Transource West Virginia, LLC
UGI Utilities, Inc.
Virginia Electric and Power Company
Wabash Valley Power Association, Inc.
Wheeling Power Company

(Issued June 18, 2026)
