Concurring statement of Commissioner/Chairman See — RM26-4 / EL26 show cause orders, June 18, 2026.
Verbatim from the OCR'd order text (canonical copy: PJM, e-7-pjm-el26-67-000.txt; identical across all six orders).

SEE, Commissioner, concurring:


Growing electricity demand underscores America’s economic strength and the
opportunities that come with it.  And with new opportunities come new challenges.  The
pace and scale of emerging large loads create new circumstances that require us to adapt
in how we build and manage the grid.  Large and flexible loads can materially change
system operations, for instance, as well as near-term planning needs, upgrade
requirements, and how we allocate costs.  Most existing systems were not designed to
accommodate those changes—especially not at the pace needed to support AI growth and
advanced manufacturing that are central to America’s economic competitiveness.  As a
result, uncertainty over the operative rules and delays in interconnecting large loads can
undermine reliability and investment and add unacceptable and avoidable costs.

Today, the Commission takes strong action within our jurisdictional sweep to
address these and other challenges that large load growth poses to the interstate
transmission system.  Today’s orders support both just and reasonable rates and speed to
(reliable) power.  I’m deeply grateful for the many commenters who shared their insight
and ideas in this action.  They let us build a record that highlights the need for clearer
processes, better information, and faster analysis while our country moves new large load
additions online.  As we press forward in these dockets, I will be looking to continue
building on the momentum already underway across the country to craft more practical,
region-specific solutions that support timely action while protecting consumers.  Our
continued ability to deliver reliable and affordable electricity requires nothing less.

Today’s orders speak for themselves.  I write separately to briefly highlight two
principles baked throughout them and that I believe must remain central as the
Commission evaluates further steps.

First, these issues extend beyond the Commission.  Creating efficient, predictable
large load interconnection processes is a joint and overlapping task for us, other federal
agencies, the States, and the RTOs/ISOs and utilities.  My animating principle here is that
we must use FERC’s statutory authority to bring clarity to the parts of this national issue
we own, and to complement and aid others as they tackle theirs.  The very procedure the


--- PAGE 99 ---
Docket No. EL26-67-000
- 3 -


Commission deploys today reflects that goal: Recognizing the value in region-specific
approaches, we are directing individual action in each of the RTO/ISO regions and
encouraging—strongly—proposals under section 205 of the Federal Power Act from
transmission providers or other entities that are molded to their unique system needs.

Most critically, exercising our authority fully without hamstringing our regulatory
and industry partners means respecting the States.  States make many of the key decisions
that affect how we manage large loads.  States bring indispensable expertise over local
conditions, siting needs, retail structures, and the resource decisions within their borders.
And they have been hard at work pursuing the retail implications and other State-specific
concerns that large load interconnection presents.1  All this effort flows from the States’
statutorily preserved role in regulating the power system.  Today’s order understands that
limit—our power “extend[s] only to those matters which are not subject to regulation by
the States.”2  It also embraces the value in a statutory lens that views large load issues as
an area of shared federal-State responsibility.  As we require clear study and operational
parameters for large load interconnection, we should remember that the nation’s energy
landscape is not monolithic.  State and regional diversity is a strength, and today’s orders
know that the best solutions reflect differing system characteristics.  Our action today is
designed to support further State efforts in this urgent and fast-moving space, not
override them.

Second, affordability must be at the forefront as we protect consumers from
unnecessary costs in a time of rising demand.  True, the Commission lacks authority over
all the factors that drive electricity costs at the retail level.  Today’s orders recognize that.
In response, the orders strive to aid the States in their front-line affordability duties by
getting into their hands all relevant information about Commission-jurisdictional costs.
As these matters move forward, I am particularly interested in continued feedback from
the States on what information they most need to assess cost implications as new loads
come online.  Are the cost transparency measures we identify today sufficient, or are
additional or more granular data needed for States to appropriately suballocate
transmission costs among retail customers?  Tools like alternative cost allocation
structures, greater clarity in transmission service agreements, accounting for States’
large-load-specific tariffs, and direct assignment in appropriate cases may help States
ensure that retail consumers do not bear costs incommensurate with the benefits they
receive.

1 See EEI Supplemental Comments at Appendix 9 – 13 (listing pending and
approved State large load tariffs).
2 16 U.S.C. § 824(a).


--- PAGE 100 ---
Docket No. EL26-67-000
- 4 -



Moving to areas where the Commission has a more direct role in ensuring cost
responsibility, we need to pull all the levers we have to keep rates fair and transparent.
Today we reaffirm our responsibility to assign jurisdictional costs to the customers who
drive or benefit from grid upgrades, not shift them onto families and small businesses.
For instance, today’s orders seek to reduce large-load driven network upgrade costs
through alternative transmission technologies, or ATTs (also commonly called Grid
Enhancing Technologies).  In determining how best to meet the needs of this historic
large load growth, technologies that can improve system capability faster than traditional
upgrades and at lower costs deserve a hard look.  ATTs may not be the best tool in every
circumstance, but where they are they can support timely interconnections and avoid
potentially tens or hundreds of millions of dollars in unnecessary network upgrade costs
that would otherwise flow into transmission customers’ bills.

So our approach today supports continuing the Commission’s policy to roll most
network upgrade costs—including those in the large load space—into the embedded-cost
rate most transmission customers pay.  But it includes an asterisk that this policy works
for ratepayers only so long as we remain committed to pursuing technological
innovations that keep those costs at a responsible and accountable level.  Today’s order
thus calls for transmission providers to sufficiently evaluate ATTs to assess if and how
they can meet large loads’ interconnection needs.  The answer may be yes or no in a
given case.  But if the transmission provider opts for traditional network upgrades, they
must demonstrate why ATTs are not feasible or would not result in lower costs or a faster
timeline for the large load interconnection customer.  In short, the goal is to respect
transmission providers’ engineering judgments while protecting against upgrade costs
when ATTs could solve transmission needs faster and with a lower bill.

I am also sensitive to novel questions about cost shifting that interconnecting large
load may present.  Today’s findings on cost recovery agreements between transmission
owners and Eligible Customers are an important step in mitigating the risks of stranded
assets if large loads prove speculative.  We are also reducing unnecessary redundancy by
allowing an Eligible Customer to meet its financial security requirements by relying on
credit support or other financial security a large load customer may have posted under a
retail agreement.  As we gain more experience studying transmission service requests on
behalf of large loads, it may become appropriate to further streamline financial security
arrangements.  Perhaps, for instance, cost -recovery agreements between a transmission
owner and a large load customer itself could satisfy an Eligible Customer’s financial
security requirements.  As we move forward, I’ll be looking to ensure cost-recovery
agreements contain fair and transparent measures to ensure the right costs get on the right
bills.  (Relatedly, the discussion about the full nature of transmission-related charges in
our concurrent PJM Order on Rehearing, Clarification, Compliance, and Paper Hearing 3

3 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 195 FERC ¶ 61,209 (2026).


--- PAGE 101 ---
Docket No. EL26-67-000
- 5 -


may prove relevant here: Real-world experience with new transmission services for co-
located load may clarify if future action becomes needed to address potential cost shifts
as Eligible Customers take new transmission services on behalf of large loads.4)

More generally, as we gain more experience as an industry and a country in
getting large loads connected to the grid, I welcome bold proposals to keep affordability
central.  Large load growth presents a real opportunity to build a stronger, more capable,
and more reliable electric system that can benefit all ratepayers.  Meeting that opportunity
at the pace we need and at an acceptable cost requires innovative thinking and fast action.
I commend the States in their continued work in these areas.  I urge the RTOs and ISOs
to continue their good work as they respond quickly to today’s orders.  I also remain
committed to moving forward within the Commission’s statutory zone with clarity and
decisiveness.  I am proud to support the Commission’s important steps today.  And we all
have more work ahead.
For these reasons, I respectfully concur.



______________________________
Lindsay S. See
Commissioner

4 See id. P 456.


--- PAGE 102 ---

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION

PJM Interconnection, L.L.C.
AEP Appalachian Transmission Company, Inc.
AEP Indiana Michigan Transmission Company, Inc.
AEP Kentucky Transmission Company, Inc.
AEP Ohio Transmission Company, Inc.
AEP West Virginia Transmission Company, Inc.
Allegheny Electric Cooperative, Inc.
American Transmission Systems, Incorporated
Appalachian Power Company
Atlantic City Electric Company
Baltimore Gas and Electric Company
Commonwealth Edison Company
Commonwealth Edison Company of Indiana, Inc.
Dayton Power and Light Company
Delmarva Power & Light Company
Duke Energy Kentucky, Inc.
Duke Energy Ohio, Inc.
Duquesne Light Company
Essential Power Rock Springs, LLC
Hudson Transmission Partners, LLC
Indiana Michigan Power Company
Jersey Central Power & Light Company
Kentucky Power Company
Keystone Appalachian Transmission Company
Kingsport Power Company
Linden VFT, LLC
Mid-Atlantic Interstate Transmission, LLC
Monongahela Power Company
Neptune Regional Transmission System, LLC
NextEra Energy Transmission MidAtlantic Indiana, Inc.
Ohio Power Company
Ohio Valley Electric Corporation
Old Dominion Electric Cooperative
PECO Energy Company
PPL Electric Utilities Corporation
The Potomac Edison Company
Potomac Electric Power Company
Public Service Electric and Gas Company
Rockland Electric Company
Docket Nos. EL26-67-000



--- PAGE 103 ---
Docket No. EL26-67-000
- 2 -


Silver Run Electric, LLC
Trans-Allegheny Interstate Line Company
Transource West Virginia, LLC
UGI Utilities, Inc.
Virginia Electric and Power Company
Wabash Valley Power Association, Inc.
Wheeling Power Company

(Issued June 18, 2026)
