Concurring statement of Commissioner/Chairman Swett — RM26-4 / EL26 show cause orders, June 18, 2026.
Verbatim from the OCR'd order text (canonical copy: PJM, e-7-pjm-el26-67-000.txt; largely common across the six orders, with per-order tailoring).

SWETT, Chairman, concurring:


Today, we take historic action to push our country’s electric markets and economy
into the future—a future of fair cost allocation, unprecedented transparency for the
American ratepayer, respect for states’ rights, efficient markets and speed to power.  Last
October, Secretary Wright articulated the monumental, generational and “urgent”
challenge FERC must solve for our country when he directed us to develop “reforms to
ensure the timely and orderly interconnection of large loads to the transmission system.”1
I strongly agree.  And now, through this suite of six orders, we deliver.

Simply put, the show cause orders the Commission issues today to each of the six
electric markets subject to its jurisdiction find that the status quo across much of the
country is not good enough.2  Nowhere close.  The record prompted by the Secretary’s
ANOPR leaves no doubt that most of the markets (and their existing rules) are inherently
slow and prohibitive of the dexterity necessary to adapt to and power societal evolution—
whether brought about by technological innovation or sustaining the great industrial
economy that anchors America.

I wholeheartedly, fully concur with these orders, which we carefully crafted to
execute upon the problems the Secretary identified in a manner that is quick, efficient,

1 Advance notice of proposed rulemaking (ANOPR) Interconnection of Large
Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking
(Oct. 23, 2025) (ANOPR); see Letter from Chris Wright, Sec’y, U.S. Dep’t of Energy
(Oct. 23, 2025) (Secretary’s Letter).
2 Cal. Indep. Sys. Operator Corp., 195 FERC ¶ 61,214 (2026) (CAISO); ISO New
Eng. Inc., 195 FERC ¶ 61,215 (2026) (ISO-NE); Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc.,
195 FERC ¶ 61,212 (2026) (MISO); N.Y. Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 195 FERC ¶ 61,216
(2026) (NYISO); PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 195 FERC ¶ 61,211 (2026) (PJM); Sw.
Power Pool, Inc., 195 FERC ¶ 61,213 (2026) (SPP) (collectively, Orders to Show
Cause).


--- PAGE 85 ---
Docket No. EL26-67-000

- 3 -


and legally durable.  I write separately to highlight certain considerations underlying the
Commission’s procedural approach to delivering on the ANOPR and to today’s orders.

Based on my analysis of the extensive record and numerous ongoing substantive
stakeholder interactions, I have determined that the most productive way to “build upon
the[] principles”3 in the ANOPR and “work expeditiously”4 towards a solution is to issue
individualized orders to show cause to each market.5  That is so for two main reasons.

First, the record the Commission collected in response to the challenges identified
in the ANOPR and subsequent resulting developments indicate that an approach that
honors the ANOPR principles but accounts for widening regional variation may now be
more efficient than a one-size-fits-all rule.6  The world has changed a great deal since last
October.  The ANOPR itself, including the articulated principles, appears to have shifted
the playing field and prompted great progress across several electric markets.  This
change (and the Commission’s alignment with the Secretary) is well illustrated by a
number of landmark orders approving several market new constructs that we issued since
October, which together operationalize the Secretary’s principles and laid groundwork
for meaningful reform and today’s actions.7  While working to develop those orders, the

3 Secretary’s Letter at 2.
4 Id.
5 See SEC v. Chenery Corp., 332 U.S. 194, 202-03 (1947) (“[A]n administrative
agency must be equipped to act either by general rule or individual order.  To insist upon
one form of action to the exclusion of the other is to exalt form over necessity. . . . [T]he
choice made between proceeding by general rule or by individual, ad hoc litigation is one
that lies primarily in the informed discretion of the administrative agency.”); Wis. Gas
Co. v. FERC, 770 F.2d 1144, 1166 (D.C. Cir. 1985) (“It is a well-settled principle of
administrative law that the decision whether to proceed by rulemaking or adjudication
lies within the broad discretion of the agency.”).
6 “[T]he Commission may rely on ‘generic’ or ‘general’ findings of a systemic
problem to support imposition of an industry-wide solution.”  Interstate Nat. Gas Ass’n
of Am. v. FERC, 285 F.3d 18, 37 (D.C. Cir. 2002) (internal citations omitted).  However,
the Commission “has long allowed different regional transmission organizations to
follow different rules, in recognition of regional variations including potential differences
in ‘geographic size and location.’”  Cent. Hudson Gas & Elec. Corp. v. FERC, 138 F.4th
531, 539 (D.C. Cir. 2025) (internal citations omitted).
7 See id. P 2 & nn.6-11.


--- PAGE 86 ---
Docket No. EL26-67-000

- 4 -


Commission has simultaneously devoted significant attention to evaluating the various
procedural paths through which we might comprehensively deliver.

Individual show cause proceedings will allow the Commission to ensure that
solutions to the problems the Secretary identified are tailored to the specific, varied
circumstances and market constructs of each region.  Indeed, a careful review of today’s
six orders reveals the many ways in which those orders are customized for each market’s
unique circumstances and progress (or lack thereof) towards serving large load.  To name
just a few examples, the orders recognize ongoing stakeholder processes in various
regions and are adapted to existing tariff provisions concerning large and co-located
loads; account for regional variances in allocating rights and responsibilities among
RTOs/ISOs and the transmission owners; leave room for each market to tailor operational
requirements for large loads that are particular to their region; and otherwise account for
incumbent regional differences on topics such as cost allocation and cost transparency,
study processes, and network upgrade procedures.

Proceeding via show cause proceedings will also allow the markets (and their
respective transmission owners) to explain, in the first instance, how to address the
Commission’s concerns.  These entities have the deepest understanding of their
respective regions and are best positioned to implement solutions we identified, in the
most expeditious manner.  The Commission will promptly evaluate their responses to
today’s orders, and, with input from stakeholders, swiftly establish appropriate reforms.

Second, proceeding via individual show cause orders will allow the Commission
to act more quickly than through traditional rulemaking.  Notice-and-comment
rulemaking may not capitalize upon individual market progress prompted since October
and would be unduly time-consuming,8 as it also inevitably would require the additional
steps of accommodating the regional variations of the approach we take today.
Rulemaking efforts can be particularly inefficient when, as here, they risk incubating
uncertainty after progress has begun, and diverting scarce stakeholder resources away
from other endeavors, such as the development of market-specific reforms submitted to
the Commission under section 205 of the Federal Power Act (FPA).  (To be clear, we
very much encourage 205 submissions encapsulating the principles we articulate in the
206s, and with all due deliberate haste.)

Furthermore, rulemaking requires a lengthy series of steps before the proposed
reforms would actually take effect—e.g., a NOPR, then a final rule, then potential orders
on rehearing, and then a “compliance” process in which affected parties make filings (or,
more likely, multiple rounds of filings) explaining how they intend to implement the rule.

8 See, e.g., Comments of Talen Energy Corporation, Docket No. RM26-4, at 5-6
(filed Nov. 21, 2025).


--- PAGE 87 ---
Docket No. EL26-67-000

- 5 -


By their nature, these procedures take time.  For example, the compliance process for the
Commission’s Order No. 20239 (which matured out of an ANOPR issued in July 2021
and a NOPR issued in June 2022) still is not fully complete as of June 2026.  The
compliance process for Order No. 222210 (NOPR issued in November 2016) could be
considered completed in May 2026; however, even with that timing, not all of the
RTOs/ISOs have yet fully implemented their Commission-accepted market rules.  I
provide these examples not to suggest that the completion of a rulemaking process on the
interconnection of large loads would take this long,11 but rather to make clear the scope
of the years-long delays in implementation that might be expected if the Commission
elected to proceed via a NOPR.  By contrast, we expect that individual show cause
proceedings for each of the RTO/ISOs will enable the Commission to spearhead lasting
reform much more expeditiously.

The six markets together cover nearly two-thirds of load subject to Commission-
jurisdictional rates, and therefore focusing initially on those regions is a prudent first step.
But I am under no illusion that the challenges discussed in today’s orders are somehow
unique to the RTO/ISO regions.  Our actions today do not foreclose the possibility of a
future rulemaking, and nor do they prevent us from acting on filings made under sections
205 and 206 of the FPA.  I encourage transmission providers and other stakeholders
outside RTO/ISO regions to make individual filings to address the issues we discuss
today.

FERC is no longer the sleepy, responsive agency of the past—our country cannot
afford for it to be.  This is a time for the best thinkers we have to collaborate on solving
our biggest problems, and thus it is my great honor to deliver a solution that honors the
Secretary’s goals.

9 Improvements to Generator Interconnection Procs. & Agreements, Order No.
2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054, order on reh’g, 185 FERC ¶ 61,063 (2023), order on reh’g,
Order No. 2023-A, 186 FERC ¶ 61,199, errata notice, 188 FERC ¶ 61,134 (2024).
10 Participation of Distributed Energy Res. Aggregations in Mkts. Operated by
Reg’l Transmission Orgs. & Indep. Sys. Operators, Order No. 2222, 172 FERC ¶ 61,247
(2020), order on reh’g, Order No. 2222-A, 174 FERC ¶ 61,197, order on reh’g, Order
No. 2222-B, 175 FERC ¶ 61,227 (2021).
11 I do not mean to suggest that the public utilities subject to compliance under
these rulemakings—or the Commission itself—have been derelict.  The time-consuming
nature of the compliance process is a natural consequence of complex, nuanced efforts
toward tariff reform.  As Chairman, I will continue to evaluate Commission directives to
ensure that obligations on regulated entities are not unduly burdensome and to make
certain that Commission action during the compliance process is as timely as possible.


--- PAGE 88 ---
Docket No. EL26-67-000

- 6 -


For these reasons, I respectfully concur.
______________________
Laura V. Swett
Chairman


--- PAGE 89 ---

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION

PJM Interconnection, L.L.C.
AEP Appalachian Transmission Company, Inc.
AEP Indiana Michigan Transmission Company, Inc.
AEP Kentucky Transmission Company, Inc.
AEP Ohio Transmission Company, Inc.
AEP West Virginia Transmission Company, Inc.
Allegheny Electric Cooperative, Inc.
American Transmission Systems, Incorporated
Appalachian Power Company
Atlantic City Electric Company
Baltimore Gas and Electric Company
Commonwealth Edison Company
Commonwealth Edison Company of Indiana, Inc.
Dayton Power and Light Company
Delmarva Power & Light Company
Duke Energy Kentucky, Inc.
Duke Energy Ohio, Inc.
Duquesne Light Company
Essential Power Rock Springs, LLC
Hudson Transmission Partners, LLC
Indiana Michigan Power Company
Jersey Central Power & Light Company
Kentucky Power Company
Keystone Appalachian Transmission Company
Kingsport Power Company
Linden VFT, LLC
Mid-Atlantic Interstate Transmission, LLC
Monongahela Power Company
Neptune Regional Transmission System, LLC
NextEra Energy Transmission MidAtlantic Indiana, Inc.
Ohio Power Company
Ohio Valley Electric Corporation
Old Dominion Electric Cooperative
PECO Energy Company
PPL Electric Utilities Corporation
The Potomac Edison Company
Potomac Electric Power Company
Public Service Electric and Gas Company
Rockland Electric Company
Docket No. EL26-67-000



--- PAGE 90 ---
Docket No. EL26-67-000
- 2 -


Silver Run Electric, LLC
Trans-Allegheny Interstate Line Company
Transource West Virginia, LLC
UGI Utilities, Inc.
Virginia Electric and Power Company
Wabash Valley Power Association, Inc.
Wheeling Power Company

(Issued June 18, 2026)
