--- PAGE 1 ---
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BEFORE THE
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
) 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the  
) 
Interstate Transmission System 
)   
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
)                              
) 
COMMENTS OF VISTRA CORP.  
Pursuant to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (“Commission”), October 27, 
2025, notice in the above-captioned proceeding, Vistra Corp. (“Vistra”) hereby respectfully 
submits these comments on the Secretary of Energy’s letter regarding the interconnection of large 
loads and the accompanying Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking proposal (“DOE ANOPR 
Proposal”).   
I.
INTRODUCTION 
The proposal in Secretary Wright’s letter is an idea whose time has come.  And not a 
moment too soon.  The world is facing a historic inflection point as artificial intelligence (“AI”), 
machine learning, and other advanced computing applications are poised to transform the 
economic landscape and shape the future of the global economy.  In much the same way that the 
proliferation of steam engines drove the industrial revolution, data centers and other digital 
infrastructure will drive this next transformational period.  But data centers require electricity, and 
our ability to develop the infrastructure needed to lead the world is being hindered by slow-moving 
and unsettled regulatory processes that stymie the deployment of the necessary digital 
infrastructure.  Secretary Wright’s letter provides the roadmap the nation needs to break that 

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
logjam and unlock that digital infrastructure to ensure that the United States’s computing prowess 
remains world leading. 
That is why Secretary Wright is entirely correct that the “timely, orderly, and non-
discriminatory” interconnection of large loads, including data centers, to the transmission system 
is critical to ensuring American prosperity as well as the affordability, reliability, and security of 
our electric system.1  Access to power is becoming the limiting element for data center 
development.  The national security implications of his proposal are equally stark given that, as he 
has previously observed, the development of AI capabilities supported by data centers and other 
digital infrastructure represents a national security imperative that is nothing less than the “next 
Manhattan project.”2  Those conclusions flow inexorably from the President’s observation this 
past summer that we are competing with China and other nations in a “race to achieve global 
dominance in artificial intelligence,” with the winner securing the ability to “set global AI 
standards and reap broad economic and military benefits.”3  This proceeding has the potential to 
help win that race. 
 Secretary Wright is similarly correct that “the interconnection of large loads directly to the 
interstate transmission system to access the transmission system and the electricity transmitted 
over it falls squarely within the Commission's jurisdiction.”4  His conclusion is consistent with the 
————————————————— 
1 Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Letter of Dep’t of Energy Sec. 
Christopher Wright, Docket No. RM26-4-000, at 1 (filed Oct. 23, 2025) (“Sec. Wright Ltr.”). 
2 U.S. Department of Energy, DOE Announces Site Selection for AI Data Center and Energy Infrastructure 
Development on Federal Lands (July 24, 2025), https://www.energy.gov/articles/doe-announces-site-selection-ai-
data-center-and-energy-infrastructure-development-federal.  
3 Executive Office of the President, Winning the Race: America’s AI Action Plan 1 (July 23, 2025), 
https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Americas-AI-Action-Plan.pdf.   
4 Sec. Wright Ltr. at 1. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
plain text of the Federal Power Act (“FPA”) and well-established precedent of both the U.S. 
Supreme Court and the Commission itself.  The legal basis for reform is ironclad.   
And while the jurisdictional lines are clear, many of the economic, technical, and policy 
considerations are complex.  Therefore, in order to maximize the good that this proceeding can do, 
we urge the Commission to prioritize those issues on which it can most immediately make 
meaningful progress, both in terms of the clarity that the Commission can provide and the 
infrastructure investment that it can unlock.   To do so, the Commission should begin by acting in 
the multiple long-pending dockets with well-developed evidentiary records.  Doing so would 
immediately resolve the regulatory uncertainty that has crippled the industry for the past 18 
months.5  After that, the Commission can act on the multiple important issues presented in 
Secretary Wright’s letter, prioritizing those with the most straightforward reforms and most 
immediate impact.6

First, the Commission should issue—as soon as possible—unequivocal determinations 
(either in Docket No. EL25-49 et al., other pending docket(s), or in this docket) that 
provide immediate clarity on how existing rules should be applied while the 
Commission works to implement reforms in this proceeding.  Doing so will help ensure 
that this important proceeding does not become a roadblock to concluding the 
commercial arrangements needed to unlock investment.  In particular, the Commission 
should make clear: 
————————————————— 
5 In particular, while there are pending proceedings focused on PJM, the Commission’s inaction has engendered 
uncertainty nationwide, delaying the addition of load behind-the-meter at an existing generating facility until 
associated policy issues are resolved.  Vistra urges the Commission to act in these pending proceedings as quickly as 
possible to eliminate the regulatory and market uncertainty that has loomed over the industry for far too long and 
ultimately necessitated Secretary Wright’s letter.  Recognizing that Secretary Wright’s letter diagnoses a national
problem, but those other pending dockets do not involve nationwide rules, if the Commission wishes to provide 
nationwide policy guidance it could choose to incorporate generic policy language in those open proceedings or issue 
a policy statement in addition to acting in those pending dockets. 
6 The Commission successfully took this approach in the ANOPR filed in Docket No. RM21-17-000.  That 
ANOPR addressed a wide range of topics, which were split into multiple proceedings, ultimately resulting in Order 
Nos. 1920 and 2023.   

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
a.
The co-location of large loads with existing generation resources is permissible 
under existing rules, including generator modification rules,7 and the 
“necessary study” process.8
b. Cost causation principles require that the parties to such an arrangement fund 
any necessary network upgrades, and the transmission service that facilitates 
these arrangements be based on actual use of the transmission system based on 
their net load.  
c.
Transmission providers must continue to apply the rate on file and permit such 
arrangements to move forward under existing rules.  The Commission should 
ensure that studies begun under a particular set of rules do not need to be 
restarted should those rules change or new rules be adopted.   
d. Commercial agreements entered into under rules in effect now will not be 
upended by reforms adopted in the future.   
e.
Transmission-level load interconnections are Commission-jurisdictional (yet, 
as described below, the states retain significant authority over large loads, 
including over the terms of retail service). 

Second, the Commission should establish nationwide rules governing interconnection 
arrangements involving new generation resources and co-located loads.9  Unlike 
configurations in which co-located load is added to an existing generator’s 
interconnection, there are currently no rules governing the interconnection of new co-
located generation and load that seek to interconnect to the transmission system.  Thus, 
new pro forma tariff language will be necessary to effectuate the coordinated study of 
new load co-located with new generation.  That should be the first set of reforms the 
Commission proposes in this rulemaking proceeding.  This is the appropriate place to 
start the reform effort because (1) the Commission has a long history of regulating 
generator interconnection, and (2) as explained in the DOE ANOPR Proposal, co-
locating load and generation facilitates efficient siting and can minimize the need for 
costly network upgrades.10  Eventually, the processes used to interconnect new 
generation resources and co-located loads may be an appropriate process to effectuate 
————————————————— 
7 The pro forma Large Generator Interconnection Agreement (“LGIA”) contains provisions regarding 
modifications to existing generator interconnections.  See pro forma LGIA § 5.19.  Many RTO tariffs incorporate 
these provisions.  See, e.g., Midcontinent Independent Sys. Operator, FERC Electric Tariff, attach. X (Generator 
Interconnection Procedures), app. 6 (Generator Interconnection Agreement) (108.0.0), § 5.19. 
8 The necessary study process is described in PJM’s Tariff.  We use the phrase “necessary study” to refer 
specifically to that existing PJM process.  
9 While the DOE ANOPR Proposal uses the term “hybrid facility” to refer to loads that share a point of 
interconnection with a generation facility, the Commission has used the term “hybrid” to describe generators with two 
generating technologies.  Compare Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Proposed 
Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, Docket No. RM26-4-000, at 9 (filed Oct. 23, 2025) (“DOE ANOPR 
Proposal”), 
with
FERC, 
Hybrid 
Resources 
White 
Paper
3-5 
(May 
2021), 
https://www.ferc.gov/sites/default/files/2021-05/white-paper-hybrid-resources.pdf.  To the extent that the 
Commission creates tariff language governing configurations in which a load shares a point of interconnection with a 
generation facility, we recommend the Commission create a new and unambiguous term to describe such 
arrangements.  
10 DOE ANOPR Proposal at P 20. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
the interconnection of co-located loads with existing resources.  To explore this 
possibility, the Commission should consider the facility modification rules that apply 
after a co-located load and generation facility are interconnected, and whether those 
new facility modification rules for interconnected co-located facilities should also 
apply to modifications of an existing generation facility that seeks to add co-located 
load in the first instance11—or whether the existing generating facility modification 
rules should instead continue to govern the addition of new co-located load to an 
existing generating facility. 

Third, the Commission should exercise its jurisdiction to establish new transmission-
level load interconnection procedures for loads that are not co-located with generation 
resources—i.e., loads that do not share a point of interconnection with a generator.  
Standalone load interconnections are no less important than other load 
interconnections, but the associated rules may be more time consuming to develop.  
The Commission could propose those reforms in this rulemaking docket or establish a 
separate docket for that purpose, but in any event those reforms should not hold up the 
above reforms related to co-location.  As described below, this step is fully consistent 
with the Commission’s jurisdiction over transmission.  This represents a new 
application of the Commission’s jurisdiction and the area where it has the least 
familiarity and experience.  As such, Vistra believes it would behoove the Commission 
to take a more measured approach here and develop the record necessary to ensure that 
its reforms fully realize the goals and transformative potential of Secretary Wright’s 
proposal.   
Vistra applauds Secretary Wright for his action in initiating this proceeding.  In the balance 
of these comments, Vistra explains why Secretary Wright’s theory of jurisdiction is correct, why 
it is critical for the Commission to exercise that jurisdiction now, how the Commission should 
approach the transition to any new reforms it adopts, and how the Commission should approach 
certain threshold questions implicated by the DOE ANOPR Proposal.    
II.
JURISDICTION 
As Secretary Wright’s proposal makes clear, in promulgating rules for large load 
interconnection, the “Commission’s jurisdiction should be limited to interconnection directly to 
————————————————— 
11 However, as noted above, studies begun under existing rules should not be restarted should those rules change, 
or new rules be adopted. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
transmission facilities, consistent with the Commission’s seven-factor test.”12  It is critical to 
address at the outset the extent to which this jurisdictional theory is indeed “limited” and properly 
respects the scope of state authority.  States exercise significant authority to regulate crucial aspects 
of large loads, such as the terms and conditions of retail sales to large loads,13 siting new generation 
facilities to serve large loads, and load interconnections to the distribution system.14  This 
proceeding will not shrink any of those critical functions, which are properly regulated at the state 
level.  Rather, the Commission, for its part, would only regulate the interconnection to the 
transmission system, which falls within the plenary transmission jurisdiction that the FPA reserves 
for the Commission.  Given the regulatory uncertainty that has crippled the industry for the last 18 
months, a clear statement from the Commission to unequivocally exert jurisdiction over 
transmission-level load interconnections will provide needed certainty to the markets and states.  
This task is all the more pressing given that there is no doubt as to where jurisdiction over 
transmission-level load interconnection lies. 
The interconnection of retail loads to the transmission system is within the Commission’s 
exclusive jurisdiction under sections 201, 205, and 206 of the FPA.15  Those provisions vest the 
Commission with jurisdiction over wholesale sales of electricity in interstate commerce and the 
transmission of electricity in interstate commerce.16  That jurisdiction extends to “[a]ll rates and 
————————————————— 
12 DOE ANOPR Proposal at P 18. 
13 These terms and conditions include minimum monthly charges, minimum demand charges, minimum contract 
term, collateral requirements based on the total minimum charges for the length of the contract, load ramp schedules, 
and mechanisms to reduce contract capacity or transfer it to another customer. 
14 See id. (explaining that, by confining the Commission’s jurisdictional determination to transmission-level load 
interconnections, the Commission will “avoid even arguably affecting the States’ jurisdiction over generation 
facilities, facilities used in local distribution or only for the transmission of electric energy in intrastate commerce, or 
transmissions consumed by the transmitter”).   
1516 U.S.C. §§ 824(b)(1), 824d, 824e. 
16 See 16 U.S.C. § 824(b)(1). 

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
charges made, demanded, or received by any public utility for or in connection with” interstate 
transmissions or wholesale sales, along with “all rules and regulations affecting or pertaining to 
such rates or charges.”17
The Commission’s jurisdiction over the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce 
is broader than its jurisdiction with respect to wholesale sales of electricity.18  Congress gave the 
Commission “jurisdiction over all facilities for [the] transmission or sale of electric energy” with 
the exception of “facilities used for the generation of electric energy or over facilities used in local 
distribution or only for the transmission of electric energy in intrastate commerce, or over facilities 
for the transmission of electric energy consumed wholly by the transmitter.”19  By contrast, 
Congress expressly reserved to the states jurisdiction “over facilities used for the generation of 
electric energy.”20  Accordingly, the Commission’s jurisdiction with respect to the transmission of 
electricity extends to the rates, charges, and practices affecting such sales and the transmission 
facilities themselves, whereas with respect to the wholesale sale of electricity, the Commission’s 
jurisdiction extends to rates, charges, and practices affecting such sales but not to the generation 
facilities themselves.  As the U.S. Supreme Court has observed, the FPA limits the Commission’s 
jurisdiction over sales of electricity to wholesale sales (i.e., sales for resale), but it does not limit 
the Commission’s jurisdiction over the transmission of electricity to the transmission necessary to 
————————————————— 
17 FERC v. Elec. Power Supply Ass’n, 577 U.S. 260, 266 (2016) (citing 16 U.S.C. § 824d(a)) (“EPSA”). 
18 See S.C. Pub. Serv. Auth. v. FERC, 762 F.3d 41, 63 (2014) (finding that the Commission could assert authority 
over transmission planning matters via Order No. 1000, notwithstanding petitioners’ contentions that the Commission 
had intruded on the states’ authority over siting and construction of transmission facilities, in part because the 
Commission’s transmission planning mandate related “wholly to electricity transmission, as opposed to electricity 
sales,” and therefore  “involve[d] a subject matter over which the Commission has relatively broader authority”). 
19 16 U.S.C. § 824(b)(1).   
20 Id.  As discussed below, states have significant authority over large loads.  See infra section III. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 
effectuate such sales.21  Rather, the Commission’s jurisdiction extends to all transmissions of 
electricity in interstate commerce, provided only that the transmitted electricity is not consumed 
wholly by the transmitter.22 
The interconnection of large loads, such as data centers, to the interstate transmission 
system falls squarely within the Commission’s jurisdiction over the transmission of electricity.  To 
understand why, it helps to recall what a transmission-level interconnection necessarily entails, 
and, as with Justice Kagan’s description of wholesale demand response in EPSA, we ask that you 
“forgive the coming italics.”23  First, one must determine that the interconnection is to the 
transmission system.  That typically will be an easy call, either because the large load will 
interconnect with existing facilities that have already been determined to be elements of the 
interstate transmission system or because high voltage, transmission-level facilities are, as a matter 
of physics, the only option for serving the large load at issue.24  The load would then submit an 
interconnection request, which would need to be studied by either the owner of the relevant 
transmission facilities or, as the case may be, the operator of those facilities, e.g., the transmission
organization,25 which would then study the effects of the interconnection on the transmission 
————————————————— 
21 New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1, 17 (2002) (“There is no language in the [FPA] limiting 
FERC’s transmission jurisdiction to the wholesale market, although the statute does limit FERC's sale jurisdiction to 
that at wholesale.” (citing 16 U.S.C. § 824(b))).
22 See 16 U.S.C. § 824(b)(1).   
23 EPSA, 577 U.S. at 282. 
24 To the extent that the local distribution facilities under state jurisdiction factor into the determination at all, it 
is necessarily only through the determination that the distribution system represents an inferior, or perhaps inadequate, 
option for interconnection relative to the transmission system.  As Secretary Wright explains, “[a]ny large load that 
seeks to interconnect to the transmission system does so to obtain transmission service and the appurtenant benefits 
as such,” which include “open and non-discriminatory access to capacity, energy, and ancillary services.”  DOE 
ANOPR Proposal at P 16 & n.36. 
25 16 U.S.C. § 824o(a)(6) (defining “transmission organization” as “a Regional Transmission Organization, 
Independent System Operator, independent transmission provider, or other transmission organization finally approved 
by the Commission for the operation of transmission facilities”). 

--- PAGE 9 ---
9 
system.  Depending on the results of that study, the large load would then physically interconnect 
to the transmission system either outright or after the development of any necessary upgrades to 
the transmission system—i.e., new or expanded transmission facilities.  Pursuant to the principles 
articulated in Secretary Wright’s proposal, which are intended to ensure efficient, timely, and non-
discriminatory load interconnections,26 as well as the cost causation principle under the FPA,27 the 
costs of those new or expanded transmission facilities would be recovered from the large load, 
resulting in itself a rate, a charge in connection with, or a practice directly affecting the 
transmission system. 
With that in mind, it is easy to see why the Commission has long held that the most 
analogous situation—the interconnection of generators to the transmission system—is “an 
essential element” of Commission-jurisdictional transmission service,28 a conclusion that the 
Commission recently reaffirmed in Order No. 2023.29  In making that characterization in the 
context of transmission-level generator interconnection, the Commission notably did not base its 
————————————————— 
26 Sec. Wright Ltr. at 2. 
27 See e.g., Ariz. Pub. Serv. Co., 184 FERC ¶ 61,188, at P 55 n.102 (2023) (“The cost causation principle requires 
that ‘all approved rates reflect to some degree the costs actually caused by the customer who must pay them’ and that 
costs ‘be allocated to those who cause the costs to be incurred and reap the resulting benefits.’” (citing K N Energy, 
Inc. v. FERC, 968 F.2d 1295, 1300 (D.C. Cir. 1992) (“K N Energy”))); see also K N Energy at 1300 (explaining that 
the cost causation principle is a component of ensuring just and reasonable rates); Southwest Power Pool, Inc., 131 
FERC ¶ 61,252, at P 67 (2010) (explaining that the costs allocated to a beneficiary must be “at least roughly 
commensurate” with the expected benefits to that entity (citing Ill. Com. Comm’n, 576 F.3d 470, 476-77 (7th Cir. 
2009))). 
28 See, e.g., Tenn. Power Co., 90 FERC ¶ 61,238, at 61,761 (“Interconnection is an element of transmission service 
and is already required to be provided under our pro forma tariff.”), order denying reh’g, 91 FERC ¶ 61,271 (2000); 
Standardization of Generator Interconnection Agreements & Procs., Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103 (2003), 
order on reh’g, Order No. 2003-A, 106 FERC ¶ 61,220, at P 698, order on reh’g, Order No. 2003-B, 109 FERC ¶ 
61,287 (2004), order on reh’g, Order No. 2003-C, 111 FERC ¶ 61,401 (2005), aff’d sub nom. Nat’l Ass'n of Regul. 
Util. Comm’rs v. FERC, 475 F.3d 1277 (D.C. Cir. 2007). 
29 Improvements to Generator Interconnection Procs. & Agreements, Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054, at P 
11 (reiterating Order No. 2003 findings about interconnection service), order on reh’g, 185 FERC ¶ 61,063 (2023), 
order on reh’g, Order No. 2023-A, 186 FERC ¶ 61,199, errata notice, 188 FERC ¶ 61,134 (2024); see also Reform 
of Generator Interconnection Procs. & Agreements, Order No. 845, 163 FERC ¶ 61,043, at P 10 (2018), errata notice, 
167 FERC ¶ 61,123, order on reh’g, Order No. 845-A, 166 FERC ¶ 61,137, errata notice, 167 FERC ¶ 61,124, order 
on reh’g, Order No. 845-B, 168 FERC ¶ 61,092 (2019). 

--- PAGE 10 ---
10 
conclusion on the purpose of the interconnection—(i.e., to facilitate a wholesale sale)—but rather 
on the fact that the interconnection itself is part of open access transmission service.30  Nor did it 
conclude that the actual flow of electricity was a prerequisite or predicate necessary for the 
Commission’s exercise of its transmission jurisdiction.  Indeed, even before Order No. 2003, it 
recognized that “[i]nterconnection by itself conveys no right to delivery service,”31 and the 
Commission’s pro forma LGIA, first established pursuant to Order No. 2003, makes clear that the 
interconnection service provided under the LGIA does not provide a right to transmission service, 
which must be procured separately from the transmission owner.32
The interconnection to the transmission system of a generator or a large load present the 
same fundamental considerations.  Before load or generator can utilize the transmission system it 
must interconnect to it, which requires the construction of new transmission facilities—both 
interconnection facilities and network upgrades—which implicates the Commission’s authority 
over transmission rates and transmission facilities themselves.  Interconnection procedures for 
both loads and generators determine how those interconnection facilities and network upgrades 
are identified, developed, paid for, and used.  If the Commission does not regulate interconnection 
————————————————— 
30 See, e.g., Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103 at P 12; see also PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 190 FERC ¶ 
61,115, at P 72 (2025) (“Show Cause Order”).  Indeed, the Commission only considered the purpose of the 
interconnection (i.e., whether it would facilitate a wholesale sale) in the context of determining whether to assert 
jurisdiction over interconnections to distribution facilities or dual-use facilities.  See Order No. 2003-A, 106 FERC ¶ 
61,220 at PP 710, 730. 
31 Tenn. Power Co., 90 FERC ¶ 61,238 at 61,761. 
32 See Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103 at P 118 (“The Commission continues to treat interconnection and 
delivery as separate aspects of transmission service, and an Interconnection Customer may request Interconnection 
Service separately from transmission service (delivery of the Generating Facility's power output.”)).  That remains 
true of the pro forma LGIA more than today, more than 20 years later.  Order No. 2023-A, 186 FERC ¶ 61,199, app. 
C (Changes to the pro forma Large Generator Interconnection Procedures), app. 5 (Standard Large Generator 
Interconnection Agreement), § 4.4 (“The execution of this LGIA does not constitute a request for, nor the provision 
of, any transmission delivery service under Transmission Provider’s Tariff, and does not convey any right to deliver 
electricity to any specific customer or Point of Delivery.”).

--- PAGE 11 ---
11 
in the first place, it cannot fulfill its obligations under FPA sections 205 and 206 to ensure that the 
allocation of costs for these transmission facilities is just and reasonable and not unduly 
discriminatory or preferential. 
Finally, a contrary conclusion would produce exactly the sort of regulatory gap that the 
Supreme Court in EPSA concluded does not exist under the FPA.33  Transmission-level load 
interconnection cannot fall within the states’ ambit.  If it did, loads that interconnect to the 
transmission system would do so under state-jurisdictional tariffs and state public utility 
commissions would be left to determine, for example, how transmission-level interconnection 
facilities and network upgrades are studied, selected, and funded.  That would plainly infringe 
upon the Commission’s plenary transmission jurisdiction.34  And given this ineluctable fact, 
transmission-level load interconnection must be within the Commission’s jurisdiction, otherwise 
it would fall into a “limbo area[] unregulated by federal or state authorities.”35
Even if the Commission does not find that transmission-level load interconnection is an 
essential element of transmission service itself, it is clearly a practice that directly affects 
transmission rates, which provides the Commission with an independent rationale to exert 
jurisdiction.  In EPSA, the U.S. Supreme Court articulated a two-step test for assessing the scope 
————————————————— 
33 EPSA, 577 U.S. at 289 (explaining that the Congress designed the FPA to eliminate a regulatory gap in favor 
of a jurisdictional framework where state and federal powers would be “complementary” and “comprehensive” 
(quoting FPC v. Louisiana Power & Light Co., 406 U.S. 621, 631 (1972))); see also Matthew R. Christiansen & 
Joshua C. Macey, Long Live the Federal Power Act’s Bright Line, 134 Harv. L. Rev. 1360, 1405-06 (2021) (explaining 
that the existence of regulatory gaps, wherein neither sovereign can fully carry out its responsibilities under the FPA, 
“would undermine the core objective of the FPA, which was to address the regulatory gap that the Supreme Court 
created when it held that states could not regulate interstate wholesale sales” (citing EPSA, 577 U.S. at 266) (citing 
Pub. Utils. Comm’n v. Attleboro Steam & Elec. Co., 273 U.S. 83, 89–90 (1927))). 
34 See 16 U.S.C. § 824(b)(1); see also Miss. Power & Light Co. v. Mississippi ex rel. Moore, 487 U.S. 354, 377 
(1988) (Scalia, J., concurring in the judgment) (“It is common ground that if FERC has jurisdiction over a subject, the 
States cannot have jurisdiction over the same subject.”). 
35 Christiansen & Macey, supra note 33 at 1404. 

--- PAGE 12 ---
12 
of the Commission’s jurisdiction over practices directly affecting rates and charges otherwise 
within its jurisdiction.  The first step of the EPSA test asks whether the Commission’s action 
“directly affects” a matter within its jurisdiction (e.g., wholesale or transmission rates).  At the 
second step, the EPSA analysis evaluates whether the Commission’s action directly regulates 
matters within the states’ exclusive jurisdiction; if it would, such action is impermissible, as the 
Commission cannot take an action that would impede on an area reserved to states “no matter how 
direct, or dramatic, its impact on wholesale rates.”36
Large load interconnection procedures easily satisfy both prongs of the EPSA two-step 
inquiry.37  First, just as in EPSA where the demand response rules, particularly the formula for 
compensating demand response,38 would necessarily and directly affect wholesale electricity 
prices, large load interconnection procedures that allocate the costs of network upgrades will 
necessarily and directly affect transmission rates.  And because the large load interconnection 
procedures affect transmission facilities, which are themselves within the Commission’s authority 
to regulate, the Commission has an additional jurisdictional hook here that was not available in 
EPSA.  As such, transmission-level load interconnections present an even more compelling case 
for Commission jurisdiction than the wholesale demand response rules in EPSA.
————————————————— 
36 EPSA, 577 U.S. at 279-80. 
37 See id. (explaining that the Court’s conclusion that the regulation at issue would directly affect wholesale prices 
“d[id] not end [the Court’s] inquiry into the Commission’s statutory authority” because the Court also had to 
“determine that [the regulation] d[id] not regulate retail electricity sales”); Christiansen & Macey, supra note 33 at 
1369-70 (explaining that a dispute involving Commission and the FPA’s jurisdictional line can be resolved by 
answering two questions: (1) whether an action directly regulates a matter over which the Commission has jurisdiction; 
and (2) whether the action aims at or targets a matter that is within the state’s exclusive jurisdiction to resolve). 
38 See EPSA¸ 577 U.S. at 279 (“Wholesale demand response, in short, is all about reducing wholesale rates; so 
too, then, the rules and practices that determine how those programs operate. And that is particularly true of the 
formula that operators use to compensate demand response providers.”). 

--- PAGE 13 ---
13 
As to the second prong of the EPSA analysis, while the procedures governing transmission-
level load interconnection might have a significant, albeit indirect, effect on retail sales, that “is of 
no legal consequence” to the jurisdictional analysis.  That is because the FPA does not create 
“hermetically sealed” spheres of state and federal jurisdiction.39  Rather, the rates and other actions 
within the Commission’s sphere of exclusive jurisdiction have “natural consequences” within the 
states’ sphere of jurisdiction.40  “And so too, of necessity, will FERC’s regulation of those 
wholesale matters.”41
Loper Bright Enterprises v. Raimondo does not affect the jurisdictional analysis under 
either EPSA or New York v. FERC.42 EPSA explicitly disclaimed reliance on Chevron deference, 
stating that FERC’s authority is “clear.”43  In New York v. FERC, the Court described the FPA’s 
broad grant of authority over transmission jurisdiction as “clear statutory language,” and Chevron
was relevant only to the Court’s narrower review of the Commission’s policy decision to refrain 
from exerting jurisdiction over a particular type of transaction.44  Accordingly, if anything, it is the 
Commission’s decision in Order No. 888 not to assert a broader theory of jurisdiction that is 
rendered vulnerable by Loper Bright. 
Some commenters will argue that the theory of jurisdiction advanced in Secretary Wright’s 
letter, and defended in these comments, somehow diminishes the role of the states or impinges on 
state jurisdiction.  It does not.  As discussed below, states will continue to play a critical role in 
regulating the rates, terms, and conditions of data centers’ consumption of electricity.  That is 
————————————————— 
39 EPSA¸ 577 U.S. at 281. 
40 Id.
41 Id. (citing Oneok, Inc. v. Learjet, Inc., 575 U.S. 373, 387 (2015)). 
42 Loper Bright Enters. v. Raimondo, 603 U.S. 369 (2024). 
43 EPSA, 577 U.S. at 277 n.5 (citing Chevron, U.S.A., Inc. v. NRDC, Inc., 467 U.S. 837 (1984)). 
44 New York. v. FERC, 535 U.S. at 15-17, 28.  

--- PAGE 14 ---
14 
because the conclusion that the transmission-level interconnection of large loads must necessarily 
be regulated by FERC does not imply any diminution of state authority in the areas that the FPA 
reserves for state jurisdiction.   
Most obviously, states retain exclusive jurisdiction over the retail sale of electricity.  
Indeed, just last month, the Commission expressly reaffirmed that conclusion in rejecting a large 
load integration tariff filed by Tri-State Generation and Transmission Association, Inc (“Tri-
State”).45  In that proceeding, Tri-State had proposed to require its member utilities to enter into 
contracts with retail large load customers that set requirements for the terms of energy sales from 
those member utilities to their retail customers (i.e., the terms of a retail sale).46  As the 
Commission’s conclusion makes clear, the actual rates for the retail sale of electricity as well as 
attendant provisions related to the retail sale, such as take-or-pay clauses for electric service, limits 
on retail customers’ energy or demand, or minimum retail contract terms, are and must remain 
subject to exclusive state jurisdiction.  Similarly, state franchise laws, which dictate which entities 
are permitted to make retail sales, would be undisturbed by the Commission asserting jurisdiction 
over the interconnection of large loads.  And the pro forma OATT already reflects that end use 
customers are only eligible to take unbundled retail transmission service pursuant to state law or 
the voluntary offer of such service.47
————————————————— 
45 See Tri-State Generation and Transmission Association, Inc., 193 FERC ¶ 61,070 (2025). 
46 Specifically, Tri-State’s proposal would mandate that the contract between the member utility and its retail 
customer include:  (1) certain minimum load and energy requirements for retail purchases by the large load retail 
customer from the member utility; and (2) provisions that the large load retail customer not exceed monthly caps for 
retail energy or demand.  Id. P 49. 
47 Specifically, in defining “eligible customer,” section 1.12 of the pro forma OATT explains: 
[W]ith respect to transmission service that the Commission is prohibited from 
ordering by Section 212(h) of the Federal Power Act, such entity is eligible only 

--- PAGE 15 ---
15 
To see this point in practice, consider the recently enacted Ohio Data Center tariff, an 
analysis of which is attached here as Exhibit A.  The Ohio Data Center tariff provides the rates, 
terms, and conditions of the retail sale of energy, including minimum monthly charges, minimum 
demand charges, minimum contract term, collateral requirements based on the total minimum 
charges for the length of the contract, load ramp schedules, and mechanisms to reduce contract 
capacity or transfer it to another customer.48  Commission-jurisdictional transmission-level load 
interconnection procedures would leave all of those elements in place.49  Instead, they would 
impact only a small handful of provisions in the Data Center Tariff,50 along with the “process for 
signing up new schedule DCT customers,” which is not described in the tariff at all, and only 
appears in high-level joint stipulations filed with the Ohio PUC.51
In any case, not all data centers will interconnect to the transmission system.  States retain 
jurisdiction over any interconnections to the distribution system.  And even where data centers 
connect at a transmission-level voltage, that interconnection will not be federally regulated where 
the transmission system is not in interstate commerce or where the energy is “consumed wholly 
————————————————— 
if the service is provided pursuant to a state requirement that the Transmission 
Provider offer the unbundled transmission service, or pursuant to a voluntary offer 
of such service by the Transmission Provider . . . Any retail customer taking 
unbundled transmission service pursuant to a state requirement that the 
Transmission Provider offer the transmission service, or pursuant to a voluntary 
offer of such service by the Transmission Provider, is an Eligible Customer under 
the Tariff. 
48 Ohio Power Company, Case No. 24-508-EL-RDR, Revised Tariff Pages (filed Jul. 11, 2025), 
https://dis.puc.state.oh.us/ViewImage.aspx?CMID=A1001001A25G11B21315A00184.
49 Vistra’s analysis of AEP Ohio’s Data Center Tariff is based on Vistra’s understanding of that tariff 
and current FERC regulations, policy, and precedent.  It is possible that other aspects of the AEP Ohio Data 
Center Tariff could be applied in ways that intrude on or interfere with FERC-jurisdictional requirements, 
including NERC reliability standards. 
50 See Exhibit A. 
51 Ohio Power Company, Case No. 24-508-EL-ATA, Joint Stipulation and Recommendation, at 8-10 (filed Oct. 
23, 2024), https://dis.puc.state.oh.us/ViewImage.aspx?CMID=A1001001A24J23B55758I01206. 

--- PAGE 16 ---
16 
by the transmitter.”  Consider, for instance, the interconnection of a load located behind a 
transmission-level point of interconnection in a behind-the-meter configuration.  If system 
protections ensure that load is not served from the grid, then while the interconnection between 
the generator and the grid involves interstate transmission facilities subject to the Commission’s 
jurisdiction, the interconnection between the generator and the load would rely on either intrastate 
transmission facilities or distribution facilities, which would be subject to state jurisdiction.52
Simply put, the states will continue to play an essential role in regulating data center development 
and the impacts such development has on end-use customers in particular.     
Some commenters may point to the fact that some transmission-level load interconnections 
have taken place under state-regulated tariffs as evidence that such interconnections have been 
“subject to regulation by the states” and, thus, the argument goes, such interconnections must be 
excluded from FERC regulation under section 201(a) of the FPA.  But, as the U.S. Supreme Court 
has “often explained,” this “declaration of policy” in FPA section 201(a) “serves only to frame the 
[FPA’s] basic structure and purpose,” meaning that it “merely points toward the division of 
authority that [section 201(b)] carries out.”53  Because transmission-level interconnection falls 
clearly within the Commission’s jurisdiction under the best—and, indeed, only reasonable—
reading of FPA sections 201(b), 205, and 206,54 any such historical practice does not compel a 
contrary conclusion.   
 In any case, even if historical practice were relevant to the jurisdictional inquiry at hand, 
it would not cut against Commission jurisdiction here.  When determining what matters are 
————————————————— 
52 16 U.S.C. § 824(b)(1); see also DOE ANOPR Proposal at P 2; Show Cause Order at PP 68, 71.   
53 EPSA, 577 U.S. at 280 n.6. 
54 See Loper Bright Enters. v. Raimondo, 603 U.S. at 400.  

--- PAGE 17 ---
17 
“subject to regulation by the States,” the Supreme Court has examined what the states regulated in 
1935, when Congress enacted the FPA.55  We are unaware of any evidence that transmission-level
interconnection of a retail load existed in 1935 or that the states regulated such interconnections.  
Without such evidence, the fact that states have exerted authority in this area in the years after
1935 is of no moment (and that is particularly true of recent evidence regarding data centers, which 
emerged only many decades after 1935).   
Some commenters may also contend that Commission-jurisdictional load interconnection 
procedures would run afoul of FPA section 212(h)’s prohibition on retail wheeling.  That too is 
incorrect.  FPA section 212(h) provides that “No order issued under this chapter shall be 
conditioned upon or require the transmission of electric energy: (1) directly to an ultimate 
consumer, or (2) to, or for the benefit of, an entity if such electric energy would be sold by such 
entity directly to an ultimate consumer.”56   Setting the rates, terms, and conditions of Commission-
jurisdictional interconnection service does not amount to an order “conditioned upon or 
require[ing] the transmission of electric energy.”  Although interconnection is an essential element
of transmission, they are not one and the same.57  Interconnection involves the rates, terms, and 
conditions pursuant to which an entity physically connects to the transmission system while 
————————————————— 
55 See New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. at 21 (explaining that unbundled interstate transmission service was not 
“subject to regulation by the states” under Section 201(a) because “at the time that the FPA was enacted,” it did not 
exist). 
56 16 U.S.C. § 824k(h).   
57 See THSI bn, LLC, 185 FERC ¶ 61,032, at P 60 (2023) (finding that FPA section 212(h) did not bar a request 
for ordered interconnection service because “section 212(h) only applies to transmission orders, not requests for 
interconnection” (citing Pac. Gas & Elec. Co. v. FERC, 44 Fed. App’x. 170 (9th Cir. 2002))); see also Laguna 
Irrigation Dist., 95 FERC ¶ 61,305, at 62,038 (2001) (“[W]e also conclude that section 212(h) is not violated because 
we did not order 'transmission of electric energy' as that term is used in section 212(h), and its provisions, taken 
together, indicate an intent to preclude Commission orders requiring the delivery of energy either directly to retail 
customers, or indirectly to retail customers under certain circumstances. We did not do that here. We ordered only an 
interconnection.”).  

--- PAGE 18 ---
18 
transmission service involves the actual provision of electric energy.  Just as turning on a car is a 
necessary element of driving it, but does not actually drive it anywhere, interconnection is a 
necessary element of transmitting electricity but does not amount to the transmission of electricity 
itself.  Here again, that is the best and only reasonable reading of the statutory text.58
That interpretation is consistent with well-established Commission precedent.  On several 
occasions, the Commission has found that section 212(h) does not limit the Commission’s ability 
to grant requests for interconnection service under section 210(a) because orders requiring the 
delivery of energy are distinct from orders requiring an interconnection.59  Indeed, “common 
sense” requires such conclusion.60  The Commission has also recognized that distinction outside 
the context of section 212(h).  For example, the Commission’s pro forma LGIA makes clear that 
interconnection service and transmission service are two distinct products.61  It would make little 
sense for the Commission to treat interconnection and transmission service as distinct products, 
each obtained through its own process and paid for via its own rate, if they were one and the same.  
The fact that interconnection service and transmission service are two separate products is 
evidence of the Commission’s long-held belief that interconnection service, though an essential 
element of transmission service, does not amount to “the transmission of electric energy.”62
Moreover, FPA section 212(h) certainly would not apply if the Commission exerts 
jurisdiction based on the alternative theory that load interconnection is a practice directly affecting 
————————————————— 
58 See Loper Bright Enters. v. Raimondo, 603 U.S. at 400. 
59 See THSI bn, LLC, 185 FERC ¶ 61,032 at P 60; Laguna Irrigation Dist., 95 FERC ¶ 61,305 at 62,038. 
60 Pac. Gas & Elec. Co. v. FERC, 44 Fed. App’x. at 172 (agreeing with the Commission that section 212(h) did 
not present a barrier to the Commission’s interconnection order under section 210(c) after relying on “common sense” 
as “the ultimate guide”). 
61 Supra note 32. 
62 16 U.S.C. § 824k(h). 

--- PAGE 19 ---
19 
the rates, terms, and conditions for transmission service.  Under that theory, transmission-level 
interconnection would not amount to transmission service itself, but would still fall fully within 
the Commission’s jurisdiction, as wholesale demand response falls fully within the Commission’s 
exclusive jurisdiction, even though it is quite obviously not a wholesale sale.  Either way, the 
conclusion is the same: the interconnection of large loads to the transmission system is within the 
Commission’s jurisdiction to regulate. 
Finally, although the Commission’s jurisdiction over transmission-level load 
interconnection is clear, the Commission has discretion in how it exercises that jurisdiction, 
particularly during any transition period before new tariff language and interconnection procedures 
are established.  Indeed, the Commission has a long history of tailoring the application of its 
jurisdiction in a way that facilitates cooperative federalism, particularly where the issues at play 
“lie[] at the confluence of state and federal jurisdiction.”63  For instance, in Order No. 888, the 
Commission found that the rates, terms, and conditions of unbundled retail transmission service 
must be filed at the Commission, but explained that where such retail service occurs as part of a 
state retail access program, it would “defer to state requests for variations from the FERC 
wholesale tariff to meet those local concerns,” as long as the retail tariff is consistent with open 
access, comparability principles, and the Commission’s transmission pricing policies.64
————————————————— 
63 Demand Response Comp. in Organized Wholesale Energy Mkts., Order No. 745, 134 FERC ¶ 61,187, at P 114 
(2011), order on reh’g, Order No. 745-A, 137 FERC ¶ 61,215 (2011), reh’g denied, Order No. 745-B, 138 FERC ¶ 
61,148 (2012), vacated sub nom. Elec. Power Supply Ass’n v. FERC, 753 F.3d 216 (D.C. Cir. 2014), rev’d & 
remanded sub nom. EPSA, 577 U.S. 260).  
64 Promoting Wholesale Competition Through Open Access Non-Discriminatory Transmission Servs. by Public 
Utils.; Recovery of Stranded Costs by Pub. Utils. and Transmitting Utils., Order No. 888, 61 Fed. Reg. 21,540, at 
21,625-21,627 (1996), (cross-referenced at FERC Stats. and Regs. ¶ 31,036 (1996)), order on reh’g, Order No. 888-
A, 62 Fed. Reg. 12,274 (1997), (cross-referenced at FERC Stats. and Regs. ¶ 31,048 (1997)), order on 
reh’g, Order No. 888-B, 81 FERC ¶ 61,248 (1997), order on reh’g, Order No. 888-C, 82 FERC ¶ 61,046 (1998), aff’d 

--- PAGE 20 ---
20 
As noted above, states will continue to play a vital role overseeing the integration of large 
loads to the power grid, including through their regulation of the rates, terms, and conditions of 
retail service.  This proceeding will present myriad opportunities for the Commission to exercise 
its jurisdiction in a manner that minimizes jurisdictional friction with the states in pursuit of the 
end goal:  “timely, orderly, and non-discriminatory” interconnection of large loads, including data 
centers, to the transmission system.65
III.
NEED FOR REFORM 
Winning the global AI race will require enormous investments in digital infrastructure, 
particularly data centers, and the associated energy infrastructure to supply the necessary 
electricity.  But those investments will be made in the United States if, and only if, the relevant 
regulatory regime provides the predictability, stability, and durability needed to facilitate such 
significant outlays of private capital.  To date, regulatory uncertainty is at its zenith because the 
Commission has not acted in its most significant proceedings involving data center development 
and the one order it did issue raised more questions than it provided answers.66  This proceeding—
and other pending dockets—provide a chance to fill that regulatory vacuum by replacing opaque 
or non-existent rules governing transmission-level interconnection procedures with a regulatory 
regime sufficient to meet the moment.  In so doing, the Commission can augment positive 
developments on the state level, where they exist, with clear rules on the issues that are uniquely 
————————————————— 
in relevant part sub nom. Transmission Access Pol’y Study Grp. v. FERC, 225 F.3d 667 (D.C. Cir. 2000), aff’d sub. 
nom. New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1; see also Order No. 888-A, 62 Fed. Reg. 12,274 at 12,371 (explaining that the 
Commission will consider state jurisdictional recommendations when applying its seven-factor test for determining 
local distribution facilities); EPSA, 577 U.S. at 288 (noting that the Commission’s demand response rule allows any 
state regulator to opt out of the rule, making “[w]holesale demand response as implemented in the Rule is a program 
of cooperative federalism”). 
65 Sec. Wright Ltr. at 1. 
66 See Show Cause Order, 190 FERC ¶ 61,115. 

--- PAGE 21 ---
21 
within its jurisdiction to resolve.  Below, we explain the need for such reforms, propose certain 
substantive principles that should animate those reforms, and suggest an outline for how the 
Commission should implement them. 
The lack of rates, terms, and conditions for transmission-level load interconnection has 
created a vacuum in which utilities are exercising unfettered discretion to determine, among other 
things, the process by which large loads interconnecting to the transmission system are studied, 
how to allocate the costs incurred to facilitate those load interconnections, and whether to allow 
large loads to interconnect to the transmission system at all.67  This status quo is unjust, 
unreasonable, and unduly discriminatory and preferential.68
Indeed, there is substantial evidence demonstrating that the status quo for transmission-
level load interconnections, specifically the lack of rates, terms, and conditions for such 
interconnections, is unjust, unreasonable, and unduly discriminatory or preferential.69  The 
Commission need not wait for additional systemic problems to arise before it steps in to remedy 
these issues.70  Given the surge of data center development, which is already occurring and set to 
increase, it is imperative that the Commission act now for at least three reasons.   
————————————————— 
67 See, e.g., Atl. City Elec. Co., Second Motion for Leave and Answer of Constellation Energy Generation, LLC, 
Docket No. ER24-2888-000, at 2 (filed Nov. 12, 2024) (alleging that “Exelon refuses to review reliability studies and 
thus blocks interconnection services”).   
68 See, e.g., Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054 at P 45 (finding that the existing pro forma LGIP, pro forma
LGIA, pro forma SGIP, and pro forma SGIA needed to be reformed based on, among other issues, the lack of certain 
information, protocols, and modeling or performance requirements in the generator interconnection process). 
69 See 16 USC 824e(a); S.C. Pub. Serv. Auth. v. FERC, 762 F.3d at 54 (“The Commission’s factual findings are 
conclusive if supported by substantial evidence.”). 
70
See, e.g., Transmission Plan. & Cost Allocation by Transmission Owning & Operating Pub. 
Utils., Order No. 1000, 136 FERC ¶ 61,051, at P 50 (2011), order on reh’g, Order No. 1000-A, 139 FERC ¶ 
61,132 order on reh’g & clarification, Order No. 1000-B, 141 FERC ¶ 61,044 (2012), aff’d sub nom. S.C. Pub. Serv. 
Auth. v. FERC, 762 F.3d 41.   

--- PAGE 22 ---
22 
First, the lack of rates, terms, and conditions for transmission-level load interconnection 
increases the likelihood that transmission rates do not reflect fundamental cost causation principles 
and are therefore unjust and unreasonable.71  As discussed, when large loads interconnect to the 
transmission system, they are likely to cause impacts on the transmission system that trigger the 
need for network upgrades.  But currently, there are no standardized requirements regarding how 
utilities must study these reliability impacts or allocate the costs of network upgrades.72
Instead, utilities have free reign to determine what network upgrades are needed and how 
the costs of such network upgrades are allocated, all with minimal or no oversight from the 
Commission.  For example, in the absence of a defined load interconnection process, PJM has 
indicated that it uses a “Transmission Owner retail load integration study” to identify local 
upgrades needed to reliably accommodate the load.73  That study, the details of which do not appear 
to be contained in the PJM OATT or manuals, evaluates transmission system upgrades necessary 
to connect the load to the grid.  These upgrades typically take the form of Supplemental Projects, 
the costs of which are cost allocated to the local Transmission Owner’s zone pursuant to individual 
Transmission Owner cost allocation frameworks,74 meaning that existing customers may be 
disproportionately shouldering the costs for interconnecting large loads.  Rates that run afoul of 
————————————————— 
71 See Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 175 FERC ¶ 63,023, at P 363 (2021) (“Overtime, the Commission and the courts 
have expanded the just and reasonable standard under Section 205 of the FPA to establish the ‘cost causation 
principle.’  Cost causation requires that all approved rates reflect the costs caused by the customer who pays them.” 
(citing K N Energy, 968 F.2d 1295, 1300)). 
72 As discussed more below, the existing necessary study process works well to study configurations in which 
new load is added to an existing generating facility’s interconnection. 
73 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Answer of PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Docket No. EL25-49, at 6-7 (filed Mar. 
24, 2025). 
74 Id.; see also id. at 17 (explaining that the PJM’s Attachment M-3 Process—i.e., the process for supplemental 
projects—could be employed if transmission system upgrades were needed to connect the load to the grid in certain 
co-location configurations); cf. Exelon, Large Load Forecast Adjustment Methodology (Jan. 2025), 
https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/planning/res-adeq/load-forecast/exelon-documentation.pdf (explaining that 
“M-3 status” is used as a criterion for deciding whether to include a load in Exelon’s large load forecast). 

--- PAGE 23 ---
23 
fundamental cost causation principles, along with the ongoing risk of unjust and unreasonable 
rates, provide sufficient basis for action here.75
Second, the current lack of standardized study deposits, readiness requirements, and 
withdrawal penalties increases the prevalence of speculative projects and the related risk that 
ratepayers will be saddled with costs incurred due to projects that never materialize.  It is well 
known that many interconnection requests are for data centers that will never be built.76
Nevertheless, there is currently no consistent approach to or mechanisms for screening out 
speculative projects.  For instance, there are currently no standardized rules regarding how 
transmission providers conduct load forecasts, which are used for both transmission planning and 
wholesale market administration.77  That vacuum makes it more likely that transmission owners 
will expend resources studying and building network upgrades for data centers that do not show 
up.  As a result, there is a substantial risk that transmission rates will reflect the costs of 
“inefficiently sized or designed, duplicative, or unnecessary transmission facilities,”78 which is 
unjust and unreasonable. 
Third, under the status quo, and in the absence of a transparent, Commission-approved 
study process, transmission owners are able to treat large loads, and the generators serving them, 
————————————————— 
75 See Bldg. for the Future Through Elec. Reg’l Transmission Plan. & Cost Allocation, Order No. 1920, 187 
FERC ¶ 61,068, at P 86 n.189 (“Courts have held that substantial evidence in this context does not necessarily require 
the Commission to provide empirical evidence for every proposition. Rather, FPA section 206 empowers the 
Commission to address a mere threat of unjust and unreasonable rates.”  (citing S.C. Pub. Serv. Auth. v. FERC, 762 
F.3d at 64-65, 85)), order on reh’g, Order No. 1920-A, 189 FERC ¶ 61,126 (2024), order on reh’g, Order No. 1920-
B, 191 FERC ¶ 61,026 (2025). 
76 Brian Martucci, A fraction of proposed data centers will get built. Utilities are wising up., Utility Dive, (May 
15, 2025), https://www.utilitydive.com/news/a-fraction-of-proposed-data-centers-will-get-built-utilities-are-wising-
up/748214/. 
77 See, e.g., Letter from FERC Chairman David Rosner to the RTOs/ISOs on Large Load Forecasting (Sept. 18, 
2025), https://www.ferc.gov/news-events/news/chairman-rosners-letter-rtosisos-large-load-forecasting
(“Commissioner Rosner Ltr.”). 
78 See Order No. 1920, 187 FERC ¶ 61,068 at P 1574. 

--- PAGE 24 ---
24 
in an unduly discriminatory or preferential manner.  Transmission owners that have unregulated 
generation affiliates or operate in states where large loads have the option to select a competitive 
supplier have a clear incentive to favor the interconnection of new large loads that agree to take 
electric service from their affiliated generation.  This incentive creates the potential for a textbook 
example of undue discrimination that must be remedied by a set of national rules that explicitly 
bar undue discrimination and with on-going compliance checks to ensure those rules are working 
as designed.  There is already substantial evidence of such undue discrimination in the record in 
ongoing Commission proceedings.79
Moreover, the Commission has already recognized that the lack of load interconnection 
procedures raises the potential for undue discrimination against or preferential treatment for loads 
depending on whether they are co-located behind or in front of the meter.80  And because there is 
no nationally standardized study process for co-located load facilities and generation resources, 
incumbent utilities seeking to develop the generation component of co-located facilities can favor 
their projects over competitors’ projects.  Given the lack of standard interconnection procedures 
for these facilities, and the attendant lack of transparency, there is a profound risk for unduly 
discriminatory or preferential treatment, which the Commission must remedy. 
————————————————— 
79 In the absence of clear Commission guidance, utilities are blocking behind-the-meter co-location deals while 
favoring load interconnection in front-of-the-meter.  See Show Cause Order, 190 FERC ¶ 61,115 at P 51 (explaining 
that there are allegations in the record that “Exelon has actively blocked several Fully Isolated Co-Located Load 
projects”); PJM Interconnection, LLC, Request for Limited Prospective Waiver, Docket No. ER26-313, at 1-2 (filed 
Oct. 29, 2025) (explaining that the proposed co-located load at the Susquehanna Nuclear facility will now become 
front-of-the-meter load). 
80 Show Cause Order, 190 FERC ¶ 61,115 at P 75. 

--- PAGE 25 ---
25 
IV.
TRANSITION  
It is imperative that, in asserting its jurisdiction over transmission-level load 
interconnections, the Commission also ensure that the process for developing load interconnection 
procedures in this docket does not slow down existing data center development efforts.81  When 
the Commission adopts entirely new pro forma procedures, it is critical to avoid “confusion and 
unnecessary complications.”82  The Commission must adopt a transition mechanism that “balances 
the need to move expeditiously to the new [interconnection] process with the need to respect the 
investments and expectations of [existing large load] customers at an advanced stage in the existing 
interconnection process.”83
To that end, as noted above, the Commission should first issue unequivocal determinations, 
either in this docket or other pending dockets, such as Docket No. EL25-49 et al., to provide 
immediate clarity on how existing rules should be applied while the Commission pursues 
additional reforms.  Those determinations should:  

Recognize the urgency of the need for powered digital infrastructure, encourage 
industry to continue developing projects and commercial arrangements under existing 
rules during the pendency of this proceeding, and clarify that any final rule in this 
proceeding will contain transition procedures that respect existing commercial 
arrangements and interconnection studies that are already underway.   

Reiterate that the co-location of large loads with existing generation resources is 
permissible under existing rules for generation facility modification, including the 
“necessary study” process.
————————————————— 
81 See DOE ANOPR Proposal at P 30 (explaining that there must be a transition plan and seeking comment on 
how to treat large loads already being studied). 
82 Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103 at P 186. 
83 Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054 at P 856 (citing Pub. Serv. Co. of Co., 169 FERC ¶ 61,182 (2010)). 

--- PAGE 26 ---
26 

Explain that any provisions currently housed in Commission-jurisdictional tariffs 
remain the filed rate, which transmission providers must continue to implement under 
the filed rate doctrine.84

Find that cost causation principles require that the parties to such an arrangement fund 
any necessary network upgrades, and the transmission service that facilitates these 
arrangements be based on actual use of the transmission system based on their net load.

Contain a strong assertion of the Commission’s view of its jurisdiction and clarify that 
transmission-level load interconnections are Commission-jurisdictional. 
The Commission can and should promptly issue an order addressing these issues, which 
would represent a strong signal of Commission support for the ongoing development of AI 
infrastructure by showing a willingness to enable commercial arrangements between sophisticated 
buyers and sellers of electricity. 
Second, in the final rule, the Commission should also clarify that its new pro forma
procedures only apply prospectively, consistent with the rule against retroactive ratemaking.85  The 
Commission should propose a transition process that permits customers that are interconnecting 
under other processes (such as the necessary study process or any applicable state-level process) 
to choose whether to continue through those processes or under any new procedures that the 
Commission adopts.  The Commission should also clarify that any interconnection agreements or 
other related filings submitted before the effective date of the final rule in this proceeding will be 
considered under the ordinary just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or preferential 
————————————————— 
84 See Cargill Power Mkts., LLC v. Pub. Serv. Co., 132 FERC ¶ 61,079, at PP 22-23 & n.16 (2010) (explaining 
that the “rate on file with the Commission is the only lawful rate” and finding that a transmission provider acted 
unreasonably when it invalidated a transmission service request that complied with its OATT (citation omitted)); see 
also Black Hills Power, Inc., 136 FERC ¶ 61,088, at P 5 (2011) (explaining that “the filed rate doctrine holds that the 
only rate that a regulated public utility may legally charge for its services is the one properly submitted to and made 
effective by the appropriate regulatory authority” and finding that the transmission provider violated its tariff when it 
charged a different rate for transmission service than the one listed in its OATT (citation omitted)).  
85 Order No. 1000-A, 139 FERC ¶ 61,132, at P 587 (“Commission rulemakings are prospective in their effect.”); 
see also 5 U.S.C. § 551(4) (defining “rule” under Administrative Procedure Act as “an agency statement of general 
or particular applicability and future effect”). 

--- PAGE 27 ---
27 
standard and will not be rejected simply for failing to comply with any new pro forma procedures 
that the Commission adopts in this proceeding. 
This approach mirrors the Commission’s transition process in Order No. 2003, when it first 
adopted standardized generator interconnection procedures.  There, the Commission allowed any 
interconnection customer with an executed study agreement to choose whether to continue under 
those existing processes.86  The Commission also expressly clarified that any interconnection 
agreements filed “before the effective date of the final rule will be grandfathered and will not be 
rejected simply for failing to conform to the Final Rule LGIA.”87  Together, these measures struck 
an appropriate balance between adopting new procedures expeditiously without upsetting settled 
expectations and stranding previously invested capital.  The Commission should strike that same 
balance here.   
V.
SUBSTANTIVE REFORMS  
As discussed above, the reforms discussed in the DOE ANOPR Proposal cover a wide 
breadth.  While there is some progress that the Commission can make quickly through issuance of 
a policy statement or other guidance, many of the topics will require the Commission to develop 
extensive new tariff language.  Vistra will continue to provide insight on those topics as the record 
in this proceeding develops.  There are, however, a number of issues that either logically flow from 
the scope of the Commission’s jurisdiction or are threshold questions that can be addressed at the 
outset. 
————————————————— 
86 Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103 at P 186 (“[I]f an Interconnection Customer has signed an Interconnection 
Study Agreement as of the effective date of the Final Rule, the Interconnection Customer will have the option to either 
continue with the rest of its Interconnection Studies under the Transmission Provider's existing study process or 
complete those remaining studies for which it does not have a signed Interconnection Study Agreement under the 
Final Rule LGIP.”) 
87 Id. P 187. 

--- PAGE 28 ---
28 
A. Any New Interconnection Procedures Must Apply Specifically to Interconnections 
to the Transmission System  
The Commission must structure its reforms in a manner that is consistent with the 
jurisdictional lines established in the FPA.  As explained above, the Commission’s authority to act 
in this arena is based on its jurisdiction over the transmission system.  That statutory authority 
controls how any large load interconnection procedures could be structured.   
The DOE ANOPR Proposal correctly identified this dynamic in explaining that the 
Commission’s load interconnection reforms should only apply where the load will interconnect 
directly to transmission facilities, consistent with the Commission’s seven-factor test.88  Although 
the Commission’s pro forma generator interconnection procedures apply, in certain instances, to 
interconnections to distribution facilities—such as where a distribution facility is “used to transmit 
electric energy in interstate commerce on behalf of a wholesale purchaser pursuant to a 
Commission-filed OATT”89—the Commission cannot follow that approach here.  New large loads, 
unlike wholesale generators, typically do not engage in wholesale power transactions.  The 
Commission’s jurisdiction is based solely on the physical interconnection to a Commission-
jurisdictional transmission facility.   
For a similar reason, FERC should not adopt the 20 MW threshold proposed in the DOE 
ANOPR Proposal.  The 20 MW threshold does not appear to be tied to any particular conclusion 
about the interaction between the large load and the transmission system.  Rather, the Commission 
should consider a MW threshold at a level that corresponds to likely use of or impact on the 
transmission system.     
————————————————— 
88 DOE ANOPR Proposal at P 18.   
89 Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103 at P 804.   

--- PAGE 29 ---
29 
B. Interconnection Studies Must be Structured to Address Transmission System 
Upgrades and Cannot be Used To Address Resource Adequacy Concerns 
Relatedly, and in keeping with these principles, the studies involving the interconnection 
of new loads must focus on studying the impacts to the transmission system.  As noted above, 
states retain jurisdiction over generation facilities.90  With that in mind, and consistent with the 
Commission’s jurisdiction over the transmission system—and interconnections to it—load 
interconnection studies must be focused on identifying the transmission system upgrades needed 
to facilitate the interconnection and allocating the costs of those upgrades in a manner consistent 
with the Commission’s cost causation principles.   
This approach is consistent with the Commission’s treatment of all other analogous studies, 
including generator interconnection studies and generator deactivation studies.  Interconnection 
processes have always been focused on the transmission facilities needed to accommodate 
interconnection service, while markets remain focused on aligning supply and demand.  To do 
otherwise risks producing ill-conceived, and perhaps unlawful, policies that undermine the 
efficacy of the Commission’s various regulatory frameworks.  This principle must apply to both 
standalone load and to loads co-located with generating facilities, including instances in which a 
new load seeks to co-locate with an existing generator.  An existing generating facility serving a 
new co-located load has the same impact on resource adequacy as the addition of a new standalone 
load of the same size.  Moreover, to treat these loads differently would ignore the fact that, as the 
D.C. Circuit has explained, every user of the transmission system is economically marginal, 
meaning that increased demand on a system can be attributed to every load, regardless of whether 
————————————————— 
90 Supra note 20. 

--- PAGE 30 ---
30 
they are existing or incremental, co-located or standalone.91  It would therefore be unduly 
discriminatory to apply a resource adequacy study only for the addition of behind-the-meter co-
located load and not to a new standalone load.92  And, as noted above, the Commission cannot 
impose such a study in new load interconnection procedures without crossing important 
jurisdictional boundaries.  
Using the load interconnection process to address resource adequacy issues would also 
place resource adequacy obligations on the wrong entity.  New loads coming onto the system only 
create a resource adequacy issue if an LSE signs up new customers without sufficient generation 
resources to serve those loads.  LSEs should be responsible for resolving resource adequacy issues 
that they have allowed to arise.  Otherwise, the burden will be doled out piecemeal to new load 
seeking to interconnect to the grid, which will further slow the pace of infrastructure and data 
center development. 
The consideration of resource adequacy issues in load interconnection studies may also 
grant LSEs a new ability to exercise undue discrimination.  LSEs often have nearly unbounded 
discretion in producing load forecasts,93 which is one of the primary tools used to assess whether 
a resource adequacy concern might arise.  Unlike transmission system impacts, which can be 
————————————————— 
91 See BNP Paribas Energy Trading GP v. FERC, 743 F.3d 264, 268 (D.C. Cir. 2014) (citation omitted).
92 See, e.g., Transmission Agency of N. Cal. v. FERC, 628 F.3d 538, 551 (D.C. Cir. 2010) (explaining that the 
Commission cannot treat similarly situated entities differently (citing Sacramento Mun. Util. Dist. v. FERC, 474 F.3d 
797, 802 (D.C. Cir. 2007))); N.Y. Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 162 FERC ¶ 61,124, at P 10 (2018) (“To say that entities 
are similarly situated does not mean that there are no differences between them; rather, it means that there are no 
differences that are material to the inquiry at hand.”). 
93 In PJM, for instance, LSEs are allowed to use any methodology of their choice in proposing adjustments to the 
load forecast to account for expected large loads.  PJM, Manual 19: Load Forecasting and Analysis, Revision 37, 
attach. B (Dec. 18, 2024), https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/documents/manuals/m19.pdf.  There are no binding 
guidelines on the methodology that LSEs use or how PJM incorporates those inputs into its load forecast. 

--- PAGE 31 ---
31 
modeled and measured by independent consultants, resource adequacy projections involve a much 
greater level of subjectivity, which LSEs could use to preference certain projects over others.    
While it is inappropriate to include resource adequacy in load interconnection studies for 
the reasons described above, there are a number of other actions the Commission can and should 
take to protect resource adequacy.  For instance, as the DOE ANOPR Proposal suggested, the 
Commission could incentivize loads to agree to be curtailable through expedited interconnection 
access.94  The Commission can also support load forecasting reforms to better understand the true 
extent of resource adequacy needs, as well as capacity market reforms to ensure that Commission-
jurisdictional capacity markets send accurate price signals.  The Commission has many tools in its 
toolbox to protect resource adequacy.  It need not—and cannot—resort to measures that cross 
jurisdictional boundaries, introduce new sources of possible undue discrimination, and cast doubt 
on the legal durability of the rules that the Commission adopts in this proceeding. 
C. The Commission Should Facilitate the Co-Location of Load and Generation at the 
Same Point of Interconnection   
The DOE ANOPR Proposal recognizes that developing load and generation in close 
proximity can expedite study processes and minimize the need for costly network upgrades.95  As 
noted above, the co-location of load and generation at a single point of interconnection—represents 
the lowest hanging fruit for the Commission to make significant progress quickly in facilitating 
the infrastructure needed to win the AI race.   
In the near term, the Commission can facilitate co-location arrangements involving an 
existing generator without creating new study procedures.  For instance, PJM’s necessary study 
————————————————— 
94 DOE ANOPR Proposal at P 24. 
95 See id. P 20. 

--- PAGE 32 ---
32 
process already can be used to add behind-the-meter co-located load to existing generation 
facilities.  Under this framework, PJM studies the arrangement to determine whether it requires 
changes to the interconnection facilities or triggers a need for new transmission network upgrades.  
The generator bears the costs of any such interconnection facilities and network upgrades,96 thus 
ensuring that other customers do not bear the cost of network upgrades needed to accommodate 
new behind-the-meter co-located load.  That framework is the fastest way to make progress in 
building the digital infrastructure needed to meet the moment because both the rules and the points 
of interconnection already exist. 
To contrast, co-location arrangements involving new generators will require new tariff 
language to effectuate the coordinated and expedited study of new load co-located with new 
generation.  The Commission should prioritize doing so as soon as possible because it “will allow 
for efficient siting of loads and generating facilities and thereby minimize the need for costly 
network upgrades.”97  It is also the most promising reform that the Commission could adopt 
expeditiously because it can most readily draw on the Commission’s experience regulating 
generator interconnections.  In the course of this proceeding, the Commission could consider 
whether those new rules should—on a prospective basis—replace existing generator modification 
processes that govern the co-location of new loads with existing resources.  In either 
arrangement—whether the co-location configuration involves a new or existing generator—the 
Commission should apply the common-sense principles from the DOE ANOPR that promote the 
most efficient use of the transmission system and ensure just and reasonable rates.  First, the 
————————————————— 
96 See DOE ANOPR Proposal at P 25. 
97 Id. P 20. 

--- PAGE 33 ---
33 
facilities should be studied based on their withdrawal or injection rights.98  Accurately reflecting 
the proposed behavior of a facility ensures the reliable interconnection of these facilities without 
overestimating their impact on the transmission system.99  Second, in keeping with the cost 
causation principle, transmission service charges should be based on actual use of the transmission 
system, as measured by the facility’s net load.100
VI.
CONCLUSION 
The Commission must heed Secretary Wright’s call to action and use this proceeding—
and this moment—to provide regulatory certainty and clear rules to govern how large loads 
interconnect to the interstate transmission system.  Doing so is critical for national security, 
national prosperity, and the fulfillment of the Commission’s responsibilities under the Federal 
Power Act.  We urge the Commission to follow the roadmap provided above to unlock investment 
in the infrastructure needed to power the AI revolution.  The Commission can and must 
immediately alleviate regulatory uncertainty and create durable rules that will govern the next 
generation of investments in the nation’s electrical and digital infrastructure.   
[Signatures on next page]
————————————————— 
98 See DOE ANOPR Proposal at PP 22-23. 
99 See Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054 at PP 1510-1511. 
100 See DOE ANOPR Proposal at PP 22, 28; see also PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 107 FERC ¶ 61,113, at P 28 
(2004) (citing Occidental Chem. Corp. v. PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 102 FERC ¶ 61,275, at P 14 (2003)). 

--- PAGE 34 ---
Respectfully submitted, 
/s/ J. Arnold Quinn 
J. Arnold Quinn 
SVP of Regulatory Policy  
Andrew Weinstein 
Vice President, FERC Market Policy 
Vistra Corp. 
325 7th Street NW 
Suite 520 
Washington, DC 20004 
arnie.quinn@vistracorp.com
andrew.weinstein@vistracorp.com
Dated: November 21, 2025
Nicholas M. Gladd 
Sarah Greenberg 
Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati 
1700 K Street NW 
Fifth Floor 
Washington, DC 20006 
(617) 598-7871 
ngladd@wsgr.com
sgreenberg@wsgr.com
Counsel for Vistra Corp.

--- PAGE 35 ---
35 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that I have this day served the foregoing document upon each person 
designated on the official service lists compiled by the Secretary of the Commission in these 
proceedings. 
Dated: November 21, 2025 
Washington, D.C. 
/s/ Catherine Mansur
Catherine Mansur 
Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati 
1700 K Street NW 
Fifth Floor 
Washington, DC 20006 
