--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System 
)
)
)
)
Docket No. RM26-4-000
 
INITIAL COMMENTS OF CONSUMERS ENERGY COMPANY 
 
On October 23, 2025, pursuant to section 403 of the Department of Energy (“DOE”) 
Organization Act,1 the Secretary of Energy (“Secretary”) directed the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission (“FERC” or “Commission”) to initiate rulemaking procedures and consider an 
Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) addressing the interconnection of large 
loads to the U.S. electric transmission system.2  Pursuant to the Commission’s October 27, 2025 
Notice Inviting Comments in the above-referenced docket,3 Consumers Energy Company 
(“Consumers Energy” or “Company”) respectfully submits the following initial comments in 
response to the ANOPR. 
I. 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
The Secretary’s Directive to the Commission recognizes the central role of energy policy 
as the Administration seeks to revitalize domestic manufacturing and capitalize on the unique and 
unprecedented opportunities associated with the Artificial Intelligence (“AI”) revolution that is 
accelerating across the globe.  The goals identified in the Secretary’s Directive include ensuring 
 
1  
42 U.S.C. § 7173. 
2  
Secretary of Energy, Direction that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Initiate 
Rulemaking Procedures and Proposal Regarding the Interconnection of Large Loads Pursuant to the 
Secretary’s Authority Under Section 403 of the Department of Energy Organization Act (Oct. 23, 2025) 
(“Directive” or “DOE Directive”). 
3  
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Notice Inviting Comments, 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 27, 2025) (unreported); see also Notice Granting Extension of Time (Nov. 
7, 2025). 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
2 
 
that “all Americans and domestic industries have access to affordable, reliable, and secure 
electricity” and ensuring that “large loads, including AI data centers, served by public utilities [are] 
able to connect to the transmission system in a timely, orderly, and non-discriminatory manner.”4 
Consumers Energy concurs with the need for sound and thoughtful energy policy that is 
calibrated to meet the challenges associated with the extraordinary demand growth being 
witnessed throughout the country, while at the same time avoiding counterproductive approaches 
that may inadvertently compromise the achievement of the Administration’s goals and the 
Commission’s core mission of ensuring reliable, safe, and economically efficient jurisdictional 
services at just and reasonable rates.  With this critical balance in mind, Consumers Energy offers 
a number of preliminary comments on the ANOPR for the Commission’s consideration.5 
First, Consumers Energy agrees with the ANOPR’s stated goal of avoiding “even arguably 
affecting the States’ jurisdiction over generation facilities, facilities used in local distribution or 
only for the transmission of electric energy in intrastate commerce, or transmissions consumed by 
the transmitter.”6  This is an important threshold consideration given that perceived overreaches 
regarding Commission jurisdiction will unquestionably draw legal challenges that will slow—and 
potentially frustrate—the objectives that underpin the ANOPR.  Consumers Energy believes that, 
despite the stated goal of respecting the limits of the Commission’s statutory authority, the ANOPR 
advances a jurisdictional analysis that is untested.  Moreover, certain statements in the ANOPR 
 
4  
DOE Directive at 1.   
5  
Issuance of an ANOPR is a preliminary step in FERC’s rulemaking process, intended to gather 
public input on potential regulatory changes before a formal Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“NOPR”) is 
developed.  Consumers Energy expressly reserves the right to expand upon the comments provided herein 
and to address new and different issues as the Commission’s process unfolds.  
6  
Ensuring the Timely and Orderly Interconnection of Large Loads, Advanced Notice of Proposed 
Rulemaking at P 18 (Oct. 23, 2025) (“ANOPR”) (citing New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1, 22 (2002); 16 
U.S.C. § 824).   

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
3 
 
raise questions that further complicate the jurisdictional analysis.  The Commission should 
carefully consider the jurisdictional issues presented by the ANOPR and, at a minimum, should 
clarify that any potential assertion of Commission jurisdiction over the interconnection of large 
load customers to the transmission system will not change the retail nature of sales to such 
customers or result in undue preference to them. 
Second, if the Commission decides to move forward with a formal rulemaking to address 
the issues identified in the ANOPR—as opposed to opting for another approach (see discussion 
below)—the Commission should raise the threshold for large load customers from the 20 MW 
level suggested in the ANOPR to at least 100 MW (including aggregated commonly owned load).  
Absent such a move, a definition of large load that reflects a 20 MW threshold would capture a 
significant number of garden-variety retail customers who are not involved in data centers or AI 
functions—and their inclusion would exacerbate concerns regarding the implications of potential 
jurisdictional overreach. 
Third, the Commission should ensure that any action taken in response to the ANOPR is 
carefully crafted to support, rather than undermine, resource adequacy and reliability.  In this 
regard, it bears noting that the Administration has determined that the United States is experiencing 
an emergency with respect to resource adequacy, and that new dispatchable generation is necessary 
to meet demand growth.7  To the extent that the ANOPR proposes changes to existing processes 
 
7  
On July 7, 2025, the Department of Energy (DOE) released its Resource Adequacy Report in 
fulfillment of a directive under President Trump’s Executive Order 14262 of April 8, 2025, “Strengthening 
the Reliability and Security of the United States Electric Grid.”  U.S. Dep’t of Energy,  (July 7, 205) (“DOE 
Resource Adequacy Report”), https://www.energy.gov/sites/default/files/2025-07/DOE%20Final%20 
EO%20Report%20%28FINAL%20JULY%207%29.pdf.  According to the DOE’s findings, there is a need 
for new dispatchable generation to address demand growth.  See, e.g., id. at 1 (“The status quo of more 
generation retirements and less dependable replacement generation is neither consistent with winning the 
AI race and ensuring affordable energy for all Americans, nor with continued grid reliability (ensuring 
‘resource adequacy’). Absent intervention, it is impossible for the nation’s bulk power system to meet the 
 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
4 
 
for studying the interconnection of new generation resources, the Commission should carefully 
evaluate how such changes could impact and potentially slow the interconnection of new 
generation that the Administration has made a priority.   
Regarding the proposal to allow large load customers to have the same option to build as 
generator interconnection customers, the Commission should evaluate potential reliability risks 
given that many large load customers will lack any of the industry expertise that is required to 
ensure reliable grid operations. 
Fourth, the Commission should ensure that implementation of the Secretary’s Directive 
provides adequate time for stakeholder input and Commission deliberation, capitalizes on the 
stakeholder feedback that is the purpose of any ANOPR, and refrains from elevating form over 
substance in determining the most appropriate and efficient manner to meet the challenges 
associated with load growth and large load integration.  Whether the best approach is a sweeping 
rulemaking or something different—potentially a statement of policy outlining goals, objectives, 
and best practices—should be determined through the ANOPR process, with appropriate time for 
participation and evaluation.  The energy policy matters at issue here are too complex, and the 
potential for unintended consequences is too great, for the Commission to truncate the timeline for 
charting a sound and effective path to achieving the goals the Administration has set for American 
consumers and industry. 
II. 
ABOUT CONSUMERS ENERGY COMPANY 
Consumers Energy is a public utility that serves approximately 1.9 million electric 
customers and 1.8 million natural gas customers in Michigan’s Lower Peninsula.  Consumers 
 
AI growth requirements while maintaining a reliable power grid and keeping energy costs low for our 
citizens.”). 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
5 
 
Energy is wholly owned by, and one of the two principal subsidiaries of, CMS Energy Corporation, 
which is a publicly traded company.  Consumers Energy owns and operates generating facilities 
and non-jurisdictional distribution facilities.  Consumers Energy is a member of the Midcontinent 
Independent System Operator, Inc. (“MISO”), a load serving entity (“LSE”) and market participant 
in the MISO wholesale markets, and takes transmission service in MISO.  
III. 
COMMENTS TO ANOPR 
A. 
The Commission Should Avoid Jurisdictional Overreach 
The FPA draws a “bright line” between state and federal jurisdiction—and that divide has 
“become increasingly consequential as the industry transitions to the electricity grid of the future.”8  
Pursuant to FPA section 201, federal law regulates “the transmission of electric energy in interstate 
commerce and the sale of such energy at wholesale in interstate commerce,” but federal 
jurisdiction extends “only to those matters which are not subject to regulation by the States.”9  
Moreover, “[FERC] shall have jurisdiction over all facilities for such transmission or sale of 
electric energy, but shall not have jurisdiction, except as specifically provided in this subchapter 
and subchapter III of this chapter, over facilities used for the generation of electric energy or over 
facilities used in local distribution or only for the transmission of electric energy in intrastate 
commerce, or over facilities for the transmission of electric energy consumed wholly by the 
transmitter.”10 Furthermore, the Commission is expressly precluded from issuing an order 
“conditioned upon” or “require[ing] the transmission of electric energy . . . directly to an ultimate 
consumer” absent specific circumstances that are not broadly relevant to the jurisdictional issues 
 
8  
Matthew R. Christiansen & Joshua C. Macey, Long Live the Federal Power Act’s Bright Line, 134 
Harv. L. Rev. 1360, 1364 (Feb. 2021).  
9  
16 U.S.C. § 824(a). 
10  
Id. § 824(b)(1) (emphasis added). 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
6 
 
raised by the ANOPR.11  And nothing in the relevant FPA provisions “shall affect any authority 
of any State or local government under State law concerning the transmission of electric energy 
directly to an ultimate customer.”12   
Consumers Energy submits that the Commission should take care to avoid asserting 
authority to regulate the matters the FPA has reserved to the states, particularly with respect to the 
provision of electric service to end-user customers, i.e., retail electric service.  As noted above, the 
ANOPR appropriately anticipates that the proposals it sets forth are likely to raise jurisdictional 
questions.  Therefore, the ANOPR sets forth four asserted justifications for Commission 
jurisdiction over the interconnection of large-load customers to the transmission grid.  Below, 
Consumers Energy offers preliminary observations on the asserted bases for Commission 
jurisdiction.   
First, the ANOPR states that “like generator interconnections, large load interconnections 
are a ‘critical component of open access transmission service’ that require minimum terms and 
conditions to ensure non-discriminatory transmission service.”13  Consumers Energy notes that 
interconnection of retail load has not, in the past, been considered to be a “critical component of 
open access transmission service.”14  If the Commission decides to assert such jurisdiction, it 
would be an untested departure from historical practice.  Moreover, to the extent that the ANOPR 
seeks to base this particular justification for jurisdiction on the size of a large load customer—
relative to other retail customers—the jurisdictional provisions of the FPA do not appear to support 
such a distinction.   
 
11  
Id. § 824k(h). 
12  
Id. 
13  
ANOPR at P 13. 
14  
Id. PP 7, 9. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
7 
 
Second, the ANOPR states, citing FERC v. Electric Power Supply Association,15  that “the 
interconnection of large loads to the transmission system falls under a practice directly affecting 
Commission-jurisdictional wholesale electricity rates.”16  However, EPSA made clear that the 
Commission’s “affecting” jurisdiction does not extend to matters that the FPA reserves to the 
states: 
FERC cannot take an action transgressing [the statutory limit on its 
jurisdiction] no matter how direct, or dramatic, its impact on 
wholesale rates.  Suppose, to take a far-fetched example, that the 
Commission issued a regulation compelling every consumer to buy 
a certain amount of electricity on the retail market. Such a rule 
would necessarily determine the load purchased on the wholesale 
market too, and thus would alter wholesale prices. But even given 
that ineluctable consequence, the regulation would exceed FERC’s 
authority, as defined in § 824(b), because it specifies terms of sale 
at retail—which is a job for the States alone.17 
The EPSA Court’s articulation of the limitation on the Commission’s “affecting” jurisdiction is 
instructive here because, as discussed in more detail below, various aspects of the ANOPR 
proposals implicate retail sales to end-users. 
Third, the ANOPR states that “the proposal does not impinge on States’ authority over 
retail electricity sales by asserting jurisdiction over the interconnection of large loads to the 
transmission system.”18  This assertion seems to be in tension with other aspects being proposed 
in the ANOPR.  For example, although disclaiming an intent to assert jurisdiction over retail sales, 
the ANOPR refers to large loads having “withdrawal rights,”19 and large loads seeking “to 
interconnect . . . to obtain transmission service and the appurtenant benefits,” including “open and 
 
15  
577 U.S. 260 (2016) (“EPSA”). 
16  
ANOPR at P 14 (citation omitted).  
17  
EPSA, 577 U.S. at 280 (footnote omitted).  
18  
ANOPR at P 15. 
19  
Id. P 22. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
8 
 
non-discriminatory access to capacity, energy, and ancillary services.”20  Similarly, while 
expressly claiming that “nothing in the proposed reforms governs the siting, expansion or 
modification of generation facilities,”21 the ANOPR proposes measures to encourage “efficient 
siting of loads and generating facilities.”22  
Fourth, the ANOPR submits, as a “justification” for Commission jurisdiction, that “any 
contrary view of the proposed reforms conflicts with the FPA’s core purposes.”23  Consumers 
Energy respectfully submits that a court could deem this argument to be a circular and 
unsatisfactory explanation as to why Commission assertion over the interconnection of retail load 
does not impinge on matters that the FPA reserves to the states. 
In short, the Commission does not have authority to regulate either generation or retail 
electric service—the provision of electric service to end-user customers.  The Commission should 
heed the jurisdictional requirements of the FPA. 
B. 
The ANOPR’s Proposed 20 MW Threshold is Too Low 
The ANOPR defines large loads as those “greater than 20 MW, consistent with how the 
Commission has defined large generation resources”24 and proposes that the potential reforms be 
applicable “to new loads greater than 20 MW and, for hybrid facilities, where the load is greater 
than 20 MW.”25  The ANOPR requests comments on alternative thresholds, “including whether 
such a threshold is necessary at all.”26   
 
20  
Id. P 16 & n.36. 
21  
Id. P 15. 
22  
Id. P 20. 
23  
Id. PP 13, 16. 
24  
Id. P 1 & n.1. 
25  
Id. P 19. 
26  
Id. 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
9 
 
Consumers Energy submits that a large load should be defined by reference to a megawatt 
threshold, and 20 MW is far too low.  Although Consumers Energy appreciates that the 
Commission has applied a 20 MW threshold for its Standard Large Generator Interconnection 
Procedures and Standard Large Generator Interconnection Agreement,27 a 20 MW threshold for 
load interconnections would capture a myriad of customers that come nowhere close to the data 
centers and other major industrial loads driving the ANOPR’s proposed reforms.28  A higher 
threshold is needed to ensure any reforms arising from this proceeding are narrowly tailored to the 
problem the ANOPR seeks to address. Consumers Energy submits that a 100 MW nationwide 
threshold would be more appropriate than the ANOPR’s 20 MW proposal. 
C. 
The Commission Should Avoid Adopting Measures that Could Harm Resource 
Adequacy or Reliability 
In its July 2025 Resource Adequacy Report, the DOE pointed to “the accelerated retirement 
of existing generation capacity and the insufficient pace of firm, dispatchable generation additions” 
as driving “the urgent necessity of robust and rapid reforms.”29   The DOE further noted that (i) 
“[a]bsent decisive intervention, the Nation’s power grid will be unable to meet projected demand 
for manufacturing, re-industrialization, and data centers driving artificial intelligence (AI) 
innovation” and (ii) “reforms are crucial to powering enough data centers while safeguarding grid 
 
27  
See, e.g., Standardization of Generator Interconnection Agreements & Procs., Order No. 2003, 104 FERC 
¶ 61,103 at P 4 (2003), order on reh’g, Order No. 2003-A, 106 FERC ¶ 61,220, order on reh’g, Order No. 2003-B, 
109 FERC ¶ 61,287 (2004), order on reh’g, Order No. 2003-C, 111 FERC ¶ 61,401 (2005), aff’d sub nom. Nat’l Ass’n 
of Regul. Util. Comm’rs v. FERC, 475 F.3d 1277 (D.C. Cir. 2007); Improvements to Generator Interconnection Procs. 
& Agreements, Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054 at P 1, order on reh’g, 185 FERC ¶ 61,063 (2023), order reh’g 
& clarification, Order No. 2023-A, 186 FERC ¶ 61,199, errata notice, 188 FERC ¶ 61,134 (2024). 
28  
See ANOPR at P 1 (“[I]ncreasing quantities of large commercial and industrial load, most notably 
data centers, are connecting rapidly to the transmission system.  NERC explains that the size and speed 
with which data centers can be connected to the grid present unique challenges for demand forecasting and 
system planning.”) (citing NERC, 2024 Long-Term Reliability Assessment at 8 (July 11, 2025), 
https://www.nerc.com/globalassets/our-work/assessments/2024-ltra_corrected_july_2025.pdf).  
29  
DOE Resource Adequacy Report, supra note 7, at 1.  

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
10 
 
reliability and a low cost of living for all Americans.”30   Consumers Energy shares the DOE’s 
concerns about resource adequacy, reliability, and affordability.  The Company believes, however, 
that certain proposals set forth in the ANOPR may inadvertently undermine the DOE’s resource 
adequacy and reliability goals. 
For example, the ANOPR proposes that “to the extent the interconnection customer is not 
the transmission owner, the interconnection customer shall be afforded the same (or equivalent) 
option to build as currently provided to generator interconnection customers.”31  Although 
Consumers Energy understands the DOE’s goal of ensuring necessary facilities are built as quickly 
as possible, the Company is concerned that allowing large load customers the option to build may 
carry unintended reliability risks given that many large load customers are data centers or other 
large industrial customers that lack the industry expertise required to ensure safe and reliable grid 
operations.  Unlike large load customers, generation owners have been interconnecting to the 
nation’s bulk power system over the course of many decades.  Simply put, large load customers 
are not analogous to, or similarly situated with, generation owners—and large load customers 
should not be entitled to the same option to build as generation owners.  Granting large load 
customers an option to build interconnection facilities risks not only delaying the interconnection 
of data centers and large industrial customers that are crucial to economic development in this 
country, but also creating severe reliability problems.  The Commission does not have the record 
to support allowing large load customers the option to build and should decline to do so. 
Moreover, to the extent that the ANOPR proposes changes to existing processes for 
studying the interconnection of new generation, the Commission should carefully evaluate how 
 
30  
Id. 
31  
ANOPR at P 26. 

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
11 
 
such changes could impact and potentially slow the interconnection of new generation that the 
Administration has made a priority.  For example, the ANOPR includes several proposals 
concerning hybrid facilities, including, inter alia, that “load and hybrid facilities should be studied 
together with generating facilities,”32 “hybrid facilities should be studied based on the amount of 
injection and/or withdrawal rights requested,”33 and “hybrid interconnection shall be required to 
install the system protection facilities necessary to prevent unauthorized injections or withdrawals 
that exceed the respective rights.”34   As a generation owner with a number of projects pending in 
the generation interconnection queue, Consumers Energy suggests that the Commission proceed 
carefully to ensure that reforms proposed in the ANOPR do not slow the interconnection of new 
generation to the grid.  Regional Transmission Organizations (“RTOs”), Independent System 
Operators (“ISOs”), transmission owners, and generation owners have all worked diligently to 
incorporate the reforms included in Order No. 2023 and need regulatory certainty moving forward.   
In recent years, MISO has implemented multiple reforms to its generation interconnection 
process to help speed the interconnection of generation to meet the recent load growth.  These 
reforms include the Expedited Resource Addition Study (“ERAS”) process, which established an 
expedited review in connection with state review of reliability needs for interconnecting new 
generation.35  Certain ANOPR proposals, such as the notion that “the interconnection study of 
large loads that agree to be curtailable and hybrid facilities that agree to be curtailable and 
dispatchable should be expedited,”36 will burden RTO/ISO resources that are also working to 
 
32  
Id. P 20. 
33  
Id. P 22. 
34  
Id. P 23. 
35  
See Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 192 FERC ¶ 61,064 (2025). 
36  
ANOPR at P 24.  

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
12 
 
perform timely studies of new generation.   The Commission must ensure that any additional 
changes it directs to the generator interconnection process are targeted and do not cause additional 
delays or any unintended adverse consequences.  
D. 
The Commission Should Focus on the Goals Outlined in the ANOPR and Not 
Prejudge or Unduly Rush Implementation 
Consumers Energy understands and appreciates the urgency conveyed in the DOE 
Directive to the Commission and in the ANOPR.  Nevertheless, the Company believes that it is 
imperative for the Commission to use the ANOPR process to fully evaluate the issues and not 
prejudge what will be the most efficient and effective means of advancing the goals of integrating 
large load customers.  Rushing the outcome may ultimately prove counterproductive. 
This proceeding is of immense importance to the industry and not only touches on 
important economic and reliability issues, but also raises complicated jurisdictional questions.  It 
is important for the Commission to allow interested stakeholders adequate time to develop 
thoughtful comments and to take the time needed to give meaningful consideration to the feedback 
that is provided.   
In the rulemaking proceeding for Order No. 1000, for example, the Commission did not 
issue a final rule until more than 13 months after it issued the corresponding Notice of Proposed 
Rulemaking.37  For Order No. 2023, the Commission similarly took more than 13 months to issue 
a final rule.38   Consumers Energy submits that the issues raised in the ANOPR are of comparable 
 
37  
Transmission Plan. & Cost Allocation by Transmission Owning & Operating Pub. Utils., Notice of 
Proposed Rulemaking, 131 FERC ¶ 61,253 (2010); Transmission Plan. & Cost Allocation by Transmission 
Owning & Operating Pub. Utils., Order No. 1000, 136 FERC ¶ 61,051 (2011), order on reh’g, Order No. 
1000-A, 139 FERC ¶ 61,132, order on reh’g & clarification, Order No. 1000-B, 141 FERC ¶ 61,044 (2012), 
aff’d sub nom. S.C. Pub. Serv. Auth. v. FERC, 762 F.3d 41 (D.C. Cir. 2014). 
38  
Improvements to Generator Interconnection Procs. & Agreements, Notice of Proposed 
Rulemaking, 179 FERC ¶ 61,194 (2022); Improvements to Generator Interconnection Procs. & 
 

--- PAGE 13 ---
 
13 
 
magnitude to those at issue in Order Nos. 1000 and 2023 and should be given commensurate time 
to ensure the Commission issues a well-reasoned decision, as required under the Administrative 
Procedure Act.39 
Respectfully, attempting to finalize a rulemaking of this potential magnitude within 
approximately six months may compromise the end result and increase the risk of legal challenges 
concerning the Commission’s authority and the rule’s legality.  For example, litigation surrounding 
Order No. 2023, which did not involve any of the complex jurisdictional issues raised herein, has 
been ongoing for more than two years and remains pending.  Litigation surrounding Order No. 
1920 has remained ongoing since July 2024, and briefing will not conclude until March 2026.  In 
short, if the Commission does not take adequate time to carefully review comments and articulate 
a durable and well-reasoned approach, there is a risk that implementation of desired reforms will 
be delayed and potentially frustrated.   
Finally, not prejudging the best approach to advancing goals set forth in the ANOPR may 
mean that the Commission determines that a sweeping federal rule is not the best path forward, 
particularly if it may frustrate state initiatives that are currently in place or being developed.  In 
this regard, it bears noting that the Administration has decried the “ever-expanding morass of 
complicated Federal regulation” that “imposes massive costs on the lives of millions of Americans, 
creates a substantial restraint on our economic growth and ability to build and innovate, and 
hampers our global competitiveness.”40 As a result, the Administration has called upon agencies 
 
Agreements, Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054, order on reh’g, 185 FERC ¶ 61,063 (2023), order reh’g 
& clarification, Order No. 2023-A, 186 FERC ¶ 61,199 (2024). 
39  
See 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(c) (providing that a reviewing court shall . . . “hold unlawful and set aside 
agency action, findings and conclusion found to be . . . “in excess of statutory jurisdiction, authority, or 
limitations, or short of statutory right.”) 
40  
Executive Order 14192, Unleashing Prosperity Through Deregulation, 90 Fed. Reg. 9065, § 1 (Jan. 
31, 2025). 

--- PAGE 14 ---
 
14 
 
to identify at least ten (10) existing regulations for repeal when promulgating a new regulation.41  
With this deregulatory initiative in mind, the Commission should carefully weigh whether a 
sweeping new federal regulation is the best means of advancing the goal of integrating large load 
customers to revitalize domestic manufacturing and drive AI innovation.  
IV. 
CORRESPONDENCE AND COMMUNICATIONS 
Consumers Energy requests that all correspondence and other communications concerning 
this filing be directed to the following persons: 
Emerson J. Hilton  
Senior Associate General Counsel  
Consumers Energy Company  
One Energy Plaza  
Jackson, MI 49201  
(517) 788-1241 
emerson.hilton@cmsenergy.com 
 
Rachael H. Moore  
Senior Attorney  
Consumers Energy Company  
One Energy Plaza  
Jackson, MI 49201  
(517) 788-1147 
rachael.moore@cmsenergy.com 
Donna M. Byrne 
C. Dixon Wallace III 
Troutman Pepper Locke LLP  
401 9th Street, NW, Suite 1000  
Washington, DC 20004 
(202) 274-2886 
donna.byrne@troutman.com  
dixon.wallace@troutman.com 
V. 
CONCLUSION 
Consumers Energy appreciates the opportunity to present these comments and respectfully 
requests that the Commission consider them before determining how to implement the DOE 
Directive. 
 
41  
Id. 

--- PAGE 15 ---
 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted,  
 
 
Donna M. Byrne 
C. Dixon Wallace III 
Troutman Pepper Locke LLP  
401 9th Street, NW, Suite 1000  
Washington, DC 20004 
(202) 274-2886 
donna.byrne@troutman.com   
dixon.wallace@troutman.com 
 
Dated: November 21, 2025 
