--- PAGE 1 ---
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System 
COMMENTS OF THE NEBRASKA POWER REVIEW BOARD IN RESPONSE 
TO THE INVITATION TO SUBMIT COMMENTS IN THE ADVANCE NOTICE 
OF PROPOSED RULEMAKING 
The Nebraska Power Review Board (NPRB) is the agency in the State of Nebraska 
with primary jurisdiction over electric suppliers operating in Nebraska. The NPRB is 
responsible for approving commercial electric generation facilities located in Nebraska, 
or those facilities outside Nebraska that will be owned by consumer-owned electric 
utilities headquartered in Nebraska. The NPRB also has jurisdiction to approve 
transmission and distribution facilities located outside an electric utility's retail service 
area. The Board appreciates the opportunity to submit these comments on the 
important topic of interconnection of large loads to the interstate transmission system. 
The NPRB agrees with the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Energy and the 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) that dealing with the issues created by 
the need to interconnect large loads on a timely basis is one of critical importance to the 
electric industry. Nebraska is no exception to the impacts interconnecting large loads 
are having on the transmission system and resource adequacy. However, the NPRB 
believes that recent actions taken by the Southwest Power Pool (SPP) to address this 
issue mitigate the need for FERC's intervention. 
The entire State of Nebraska is within the SPP's operating area. The SPP has 
employed a collaborative process through which its member utilities, state regulators, 
private developers, special interest groups and the independent board of directors held 
numerous meetings and developed a series of streamlined techniques to address the 
backlog in processing large interconnection requests. The term SPP adopted for the 
effort was High Impact Large Loads (HILL). In October 2025 SPP filed tariff revisions with 
FERC to approve the final process that had been developed. The filing is now pending 

--- PAGE 2 ---
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
November 21, 2025 
Page 2 of 4 
before FERC in docket ER26-247. The HILL process was designed to expedite the 
interconnection of large loads taking firm transmission service when there is sufficient 
generation on the system today. SPP is further working to develop an expedited 
process for interconnection of Conditional Hill (CHILL) that are willing to take curtailable 
transmission service while transmission and generation is built. At least in the SPP 
operating area, the Secretary's requested reforms are unnecessary. The necessary steps 
to ensure the goal of timely, orderly and nondiscriminatory interconnection of new 
large loads1 are already being taken, and are expected to be accomplished in the SPP's 
operating area without the need for FERC's intervention. 
In the ANOPR the Secretary of Energy would have FERC assume jurisdiction over 
the interconnection of large loads to the transmission system. The Board is concerned 
that the ANOPR expands FERC's jurisdiction into an area that has historically been 
reserved to the states. States have jurisdiction over retail sales of electric energy. The 
provision of electric service directly to customers, including large loads, is inherently 
retail service. It is not clear to the NPRB if it is anticipated that the large loads targeted 
in the ANOPR would be expected to receive service directly from bulk transmission lines 
such as 345 kV, or if FERC's jurisdiction would extend to large loads receiving service 
directly from 115 kV or 34.5 kV transmission and subtransmission lines. Regardless of 
the voltage involved, these large loads would be retail customers receiving service from 
transmission or subtransmission lines. State agencies with jurisdiction over such retail 
electric service have a greater understanding of the particular situation in which utilities 
in that state operate. If FERC were to assume jurisdiction over interconnection of large 
loads without the detailed knowledge of the local transmission, distribution, and 
generation facility situation, it could create strains on the local transmission system. If 
generation in the area is insufficient to handle the new large loads, rapid 
interconnection of those loads without the necessary studies conducted by a Regional 
Transmission Organization (RTO) such as the SPP could threaten reliability in the local 
area. The NPRB is also concerned that FERC jurisdiction over the area could potentially 
preempt state action to ensure that the costs directly associated with needed upgrades 
in the local transmission system are paid by the entity installing the large load, and 
those costs are not absorbed by the local ratepayers. In Nebraska's case, the electric 
consumers in the service area of the utility holding the retail service area rights to the 
1 Secretary of Energy transmittal letter, page 1. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
November 21, 2025 
Page 3 of 4 
location where a large load will be located could potentially end up absorbing the costs 
of upgrades needed to accommodate the new large load. Local electric consumers 
should not be required to subsidize the network upgrades and interconnection costs of 
new large loads. Although the NPRB agrees with the Secretary of Energy that 
standardized study deposits, readiness requirements, and withdrawal penalties are 
needed when dealing with the interconnection of proposed large loads2, the NPRB 
believes these solutions are best addressed at the local level, not through a 
standardized set of rules for all types of loads in all areas of the country. The NPRB is 
also concerned that FERC, by exerting jurisdiction over interconnection of large retail 
loads, may preempt state jurisdiction in places such as Nebraska that have certified 
retail electric service territories. FERC should make clear that such a result is not 
intended. 
The NPRB believes that FERC should not become involved in the type of local 
decisions necessary for the interconnection of large loads. In areas with an RTO that 
have already developed adequate procedures, the NPRB encourages FERC to adopt a 
collaborative approach where FERC, state commissions and transmission providers work 
together to develop solutions. Remedies other than exerting jurisdiction over the issue 
should be explored to encourage or compel recalcitrant commissions and transmission 
providers to implement procedures for the interconnection of large loads that 
substantially meet the goals stated in the ANOPR. As noted, SPP has been proactive in 
the development of such procedures and should not have to develop an entirely new 
process designed as a one-size-fits-all approach that may provide only marginal 
differences from what SPP has developed and already filed with FERC. Put simply, FERC 
can achieve the objectives sought by the Secretary of Energy in the ANOPR without 
intruding into the states' area of retail jurisdiction. 
Finally, the NPRB is concerned that the 20 megawatt threshold in the ANOPR is 
too low. Such a small number drastically increas.es the number of entities that would be 
covered by the proposed rule. Further, many loads between 20 and 50 megawatts are 
not directly connected to the transmission system but rather are connected to 
distribution and sub-transmission system facilities that are not subject to FERC 
jurisdiction. Although the Secretary of Energy indicated he selected this number to be 
2 ANOPR page 11, paragraph 21. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
November 21, 2025 
Page 4 of 4 
consistent with FERC's definition of large generation resources3, generation and loads 
obviously have very different attributes. These facts warrant the selection of a different 
minimum size for loads. By increasing the threshold in any final rule to 50 megawatts 
the truly large loads that have the greatest impact on the transmission system would be 
covered. If a policy is needed for the far more numerous smaller loads that can be 
addressed by the applicable RTO and state commission. The NPRB does not believe 
FERC needs to deal with the interconnection of loads as small as 20 megawatts. In other 
words, for loads as small as 20 megawatts, one size does not fit all. 
For the Board, 
Chuck Hutchison 
Chairman 
Nebraska Power Review Board 
P.O. Box 94713 
301 Centennial Mall South - Lower Level 
Lincoln, NE 68509 
3 Secretary of Energy transmittal letter, page 2, footnote 1 and ANOPR, pages 10-11, paragraph 19. 
