--- PAGE 1 ---
Page 1 of 12 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System   
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
 
 
COMMENTS OF SHELL ENERGY NORTH AMERICA (US), L.P. 
Shell Energy North America (US) LP (“Shell Energy”) appreciates the opportunity to provide 
comments on the ANOPR in the above-referenced docket.1 
I. 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Shell Energy supports the objectives and direction outlined in the ANOPR, which seeks to 
establish a transparent, equitable, and efficient process for the timely and organized 
interconnection of large loads to the transmission system, without compromising grid reliability. 
Shell Energy’s comments respond to the proposed policy principles on effective reforms to 
expedite interconnecting large loads, and not on the federal and state jurisdictional roles described 
in the ANOPR. Competitive market participants value regulatory certainty and legally durable 
processes as a prerequisite to major capital investments; the market will carefully follow the 
jurisdictional roles discussion as it unfolds.  
FERC has established its own principles and set of legally durable criteria on how to achieve 
its mission to facilitate economically efficient markets, and criteria to determine just and 
reasonable rates. FERC precedent prioritizes market transparency, competition to support 
consumer affordability, and maintaining regulatory certainty by preserving the rights of existing 
market participants. Incremental progress and innovation can proceed regionally concurrently with 
the ANOPR; indeed, the implementation experience integrating large loads in individual regions 
to-date provides valuable information about the tradeoffs FERC must consider in this rulemaking.  
Reforms that increase accuracy of the load projections used in the FERC-jurisdictional 
capacity markets should be prioritized. It is crucial for both regulators and market participants to 
identify the true scale of load growth, because their decisions—such as which design solutions 
regulators choose and how much investment risk market participants assume—will vary greatly 
 
1 Shell Energy is one of the largest traders of electricity, natural gas, and environmental products in North America 
and also actively participates in wholesale electric markets across North America. In addition, Shell Energy has 
affiliates that invest in and develop clean energy resources, supply retail power to customers, and serve large end 
users. 

--- PAGE 2 ---
Page 2 of 12 
 
depending on whether the increase is 15GW or 50GW over the next five years. The current forward 
markets are equipped to meet the needs of increased demand when forecasts used in RTO/ISO 
administered competitive markets are credible and timely, or where the risks to load forecast 
accuracy are transparent. Even if other proposed reforms require longer processes to complete 
because of the challenging issues under consideration, FERC, in accordance with its jurisdiction 
over wholesale markets, is authorized to set regulations stipulating that capacity markets should 
consider those large loads that have satisfied the required study deposits and readiness criteria, and 
not include large loads that have not paid deposits or demonstrated readiness. As it does not require 
complex engineering or policy tradeoffs, it can be implemented quickly. This skin in the game 
from developers will increase transparency, which in turn will enable forward markets to reflect 
the value of the actual load and trigger immediate improvement in the commercial response to the 
more realistic projected demand.  
It is essential that, during the rulemaking process, careful consideration is given to prevent 
undue discrimination against new or existing load and generation resources, and to ensure that 
wholesale rates remain just and reasonable. To facilitate the transition through any rulemaking 
processes, we provide key considerations and clarifying guidance to remove potential 
misinterpretation of the ANOPR principles and move toward fast implementation. 
Key considerations: 
• First and highest priority should be for improving accuracy of load projections used in 
current competitive markets. 
• Ensure the new rules do not disrupt market price signals and misalign with established 
market principles. 
• Allow market flexibility by avoiding mandates or barriers so competitive markets can 
innovate to ensure reliability cost-effectively.  
• Ensure restricted access designed to speed up the interconnection process in the interim 
doesn’t preclude future requests for full access utilizing normal processes. 
• Recognize regional differences in wholesale market designs and grid needs. 
• Protect existing generation interconnection queue resources from negative impacts of new 
processes. 
• The rulemaking process should not impede the ongoing development of regional programs, 
tariffs, and procedures that support the objectives outlined in the ANOPR. 
 
Shell Energy proposes the following guidance where the ANOPR initial principles were silent on 
key implementation details: 
 
1) The principles should not be requirements for large loads to interconnect under permanent 
operational restrictions; instead, should be interpreted as options that can expedite initial 

--- PAGE 3 ---
Page 3 of 12 
 
interconnections and allow for interim operations while full studies and transmission 
construction activities are completed if large loads need full grid access. Shell Energy 
supports efforts to standardize processes across regions and improve speed to market for 
large loads, but permanent restrictions on large load operations or removing the option to 
proceed through study for full participation does not facilitate access to competitive market 
solutions in the long run. (Principles 3, 5, 6, 7, 10, 11, 13, 14) 
2) Where possible, the ANOPR should build upon existing market processes, definitions, and 
tools in implementation, instead of creating new definitions and tools only applicable to 
qualifying large loads. Shell Energy believes that using existing market tools speeds 
implementation, since establishing if the characteristics of large loads or if the 
characteristics of hybrid/co-located large loads with generating resources require distinct 
treatment (relative to existing load and generation resources) is a time-consuming pre-
requisite for preferential or discriminatory treatment. (Principles 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 
11, 14) 
3) The Talen/PJM co-location docket and combined Technical Conference2 established that 
the decisions are technically complex and nuanced on where it is appropriate to use net 
injection/withdrawal in study practices versus gross injection and withdrawal separately. 
As we note below when responding to individual principles, the RTO/ISOs and NERC 
should weigh in if the reliability risks typically assessed during interconnection studies 
(transient stability, voltage, harmonics) can be done in the expedited study timeframe, and 
if those risks to the BPS are mitigated by system protection facilities or system protection 
schemes. Additionally, large load end-users need to weigh in if such an operating model 
fits their power needs, or if it is prohibitive to large load operations to be hybrid/co-located 
behind system protection facilities or system protection schemes with strict limits on 
withdrawals or injection to the grid around the clock. (Principles 3, 5, 6, 7, 10, 11, 13, 14) 
4) Even where net injection/withdrawal is the conceptually appropriate quantity, there are a 
variety of metrics used in current supply/demand accounting frameworks, transmission 
planning, resource adequacy frameworks, and energy market operations. Shell Energy 
requests the rulemaking harmonize the calculation of net injection/withdrawal with 
existing resource adequacy accreditation rules, which vary by region. These accreditation 
methodologies may include UCAP, EFORd, ELCC, marginal ELCC, or exceedance, 
measured across a range of assessment periods, such as during annual peak load hour only, 
across monthly/seasonal load peaks, and in long-term risk-based scenarios as required by 
Order No. 1920. The ANOPR did not specify if other physical parameters, such as ramp 
rate, frequency response, load following capability, economic minimum, and economic 
maximum must be reasonably well matched with expected load parameters to ensure it is 
feasible to operate in a hybrid manner. When paired with system protection facilities or 
system protection schemes that will prevent or penalize injection or withdrawal outside 
 
2 EL25-49-000, EL25-20-000 Consolidated, and AD24-11-000 Large Loads Co-Located at Generating Facilities 
 

--- PAGE 4 ---
Page 4 of 12 
 
narrow tolerance bands, Shell Energy supports matching additional operating criteria 
(beyond capacity accreditation) to feasibly operate hybrid/co-located generation and load. 
(Principles 3, 5, 6, 7, 10, 11, 13, 14)  
 
II. 
COMMENTS 
A. Applicability of rules 
Principle 1: Limiting this rulemaking to transmission interconnections instead of 
distribution system interconnections could help mitigate the debate on more complicated and time 
consuming federal jurisdiction issues.  
Creating a standardized and transparent load interconnection queue for transmission 
connected large loads would capture a significant portion of this new demand, facilitating the 
ability of all market participants to perform effective risk analysis and reflect the value of these 
loads in forward pricing, enabling them to site investment appropriately.  
Principle 2: There is already regional variation in how a threshold has been designed- e.g. 
ERCOT has set a 75 MW threshold, SPP created MW thresholds based on the transmission system 
voltage where the large load is interconnecting, and other existing definitions such as Behind the 
Meter size caps may create a just and reasonable threshold. Existing large load customers that 
entered a load interconnection queue before thresholds were established should be included in 
future reporting for transparency. 
Shell Energy agrees that a minimum size threshold is necessary. It should be high enough 
to minimize the administrative burden to RTO/ISOs of managing multiple study processes, and 
high enough to minimize impacts to traditional, non-large load customers requesting service. At 
the same time, the minimum thresholds should be low enough that, when combined with 
principle 4 (study deposits and readiness criteria), load forecasts accurately capture the scale of the 
total load additions that could impact resource adequacy and wholesale market prices. Regional 
stakeholder processes are well situated to establish the exact level based on reliability risks, the 
demand for load interconnection in the region, and existing RTO/ISO processes.  
B. Study Practices and Physical or Technical specifications 
Principles 3 and 5: As background, existing interconnection studies determine both a) if 
there is sufficient transmission at peak hours to simultaneously and feasibly bring energy from 
generation to load, as well as b) other transmission stability elements, such as the fault 
contributions of new power supply, how the new supply affects the voltage profile of the system, 
etc. Shell Energy supports analyzing the net impact of hybrid/co-located load with generation to 
allow for more efficient siting, faster study processing and shorter transmission infrastructure 
construction timelines. In regions where generators must own firm transmission rights to be 
eligible to sell resource adequacy, this rulemaking should clarify that generation resources are 

--- PAGE 5 ---
Page 5 of 12 
 
eligible to sell capacity or resource adequacy products to co-located load without requiring firm 
transmission rights.  
The transmission stability elements of generator and load interconnection studies can also 
trigger required network upgrades. This rulemaking should clarify that net injection/withdrawal 
applies to both the resource adequacy transmission rights and steady state transmission stability 
elements of a full interconnection study. Typically, steady state transmission planning studies are 
based on the full characteristics of the generation/load and not based on the net 
injection/withdrawal. In regard to transient voltage and stability control studies, more input from 
the RTO/ISOs and NERC is needed to determine if such studies can be done on an expedited and 
reliable manner outside of the cluster process, or what type of system protection facilities or 
schemes would mitigate the need to study transient voltage & stability control risks in the area 
when studying at net injection/withdrawal level. 
Shell Energy appreciates the use of net injection/withdrawal in interconnection studies of 
hybrid/co-located load and generation to expedite interconnection, to the extent it can be done 
while maintaining grid stability and reliability. However, the requirement to net and install special 
protective schemes should not be mandated as a permanent option precluding the entities from 
requesting to connect at gross level unless agreeable to the hybrid/co-located load and generation 
customer(s). This could be implemented as a potential interim option, giving hybrid/ co-located 
load and generation resources the right to request future study and full market participation as 
distinct load and generation if that better suits their long-run operational needs. 
Principle 4: At the time of entry into load queue, Shell Energy supports study deposits, 
readiness requirements including application fees, and withdrawal penalties for load 
interconnection requests similar to existing generator interconnections studies and application 
fees. These measures deter speculative projects, discipline the size of requests, and increase 
confidence when including large loads in long-range planning forecasts. Readiness criteria should 
also include attestations about duplicative requests, proof of site control for both the facility site 
and tie-line, and application for material permits. Posting of application fees, study fees, cost in 
aid of construction and/or early $/MW financial securities should be eligible for refund following 
completion of a harm assessment showing no material impact on equally or lower queued 
customers if the large load project withdraws is application. These application fees or security 
deposits, submitted at the time of large load application, could go toward network upgrades 
identified in service agreement after study. If these deposits exceed the total cost of study and 
assigned network upgrades, these excess deposits could be refunded after the load has been placed 
in service, in proportion to how much of the load materialized relative to full requested MWs of 
requested load interconnection.  
Shell Energy views this as the most important principle proposed in the ANOPR. This 
reform, with proper transparency reporting, significantly improves the credibility of the load 
forecasts. These deposits should be carefully structured - with early posting of meaningful $/MW 

--- PAGE 6 ---
Page 6 of 12 
 
security, acceptable types of security accepted, early collection of securities, refunds only up to 
realized load levels, etc. - to ensure that applicants are genuinely committed. This approach 
encourages the reduction of speculative or duplicate applications and enhances the accuracy of 
load projections. Increased scrutiny and transparency will strengthen market confidence in these 
projections, allowing forward markets to more accurately reflect actual loads and enabling 
participants to make informed investment decisions. These fees may need to be adjusted in the 
future for inflation, so it would be less onerous on the Commission to include in subsequent 
rulemaking a mechanism to annually adjust the minimum study fee based on some type of inflation 
index. 
Even if jurisdictional or technical discussions delay progress on all principles outlined in 
the ANOPR, FERC should prioritize developing rules related to this principle. In regions with a 
centrally cleared capacity market, RTO/ISOs establish demand curve construction methodologies 
and specific parameters to establish total MW quantity of reliability need for the market.3 Including 
large loads that pay study deposits and meet established readiness criteria in capacity market 
demand curves can be executed efficiently relative to other reforms. This reform alone would 
facilitate creation of forward market signals enabling timely investments necessary for reliable 
service to new large loads. 
Principle 6: Shell Energy supports system protection facilities or system protection 
schemes as important tools to allow faster load interconnections without compromising the 
reliability of the BPS. This rulemaking should clarify the type of system protection facilities or 
system protection schemes envisioned, such as if the facilities will limit power flow during normal 
operations, or if the facilities only disconnect the co-located generation/load if an emergency drop 
is detected at the corresponding load/generation. 
Shell Energy believes hybrid/co-located load and generation facilities should retain the 
right to request future study and full market participation without system protection facilities or 
system protection schemes limiting injection and withdrawal to low net MW values, where full 
grid access better suits their long-run operational needs, or after necessary network upgrades enter 
service. The necessity and feasibility of full-time hybrid/co-located operations without grid 
support may change over time as grid operators gain experience and tools to manage the risks of 
large loads, as new NERC standards mitigate some risks, as sufficient system-wide generation and 
transmission is built, and as long-range planning tools catch up to the necessary pace of load 
additions.  
Principle 7: Shell Energy supports the principle that load curtailment can expedite studies. 
Load curtailment contributes to reliable operations during peak loads and is an important tool for 
 
3 Guidance for how to LSEs and RTO/ISOs construct load forecasts for this purpose are prepared by regions with a 
centralized capacity market. See MISO BPM 11, PJM Manual 18, ISO-NE Manual 20, and NYISO Load 
Forecasting Manual for details on existing RTO/ISO roles in setting reserve or reliability margins, including 
provisions on adjusting reliability requirement for large loads.  

--- PAGE 7 ---
Page 7 of 12 
 
cost-effective system planning. In rulemaking proceedings, FERC should examine how a 
hybrid/co-located load and generation resource model aligns with existing Demand Response (DR) 
markets and how to prevent the price suppression from demand response called through out-of-
market mechanisms. Maintaining price and investment signals is especially critical with the 
potential scale of large load participation in demand response, which has historically only been 2-
8% of regional peak loads.4  
For example, does the ANOPR intend for the load to participate as price responsive or 
economic demand in energy market operations, or as “supply side” demand response that reduce 
capacity market demand curves, or both? RTO/ISO DR rules vary widely, so the payments to 
participating resources, penalties for non-response, measurement and verification requirements, 
market power mitigation, triggering criteria when an RTO/ISO is allowed to call on specific DR 
types, and eligibility for existing programs may create different and unexpected outcomes from 
region to region. Out-of-market load reduction DR is typically settled at zonal LMP, while in-
market DR either through generation injection or load reduction is paid LMP at the Pnode. The 
rulemaking should detail what DR incentives or settlement mechanisms are appropriate for large 
loads- technology neutral solutions and affordability are important goals that should be 
accomplished without creating unintended price suppression or muting existing investment 
signals. Preferably, this should be executed solely as market-based demand response. If out-of-
market deployments must occur, curtailment should take place immediately before firm load 
shedding, and steps should be taken to minimize any weakening of price signals resulting from 
these out-of-market actions. 
Finally, if a hybrid/co-located load and generation resource has zero injection/withdrawal 
rights and is behind system protection facilities that restrict MW flows to or from the rest of grid, 
it is unclear how electrically isolated DR supports reliable bulk power system operations or cost-
effective system planning.  
C. Cost allocation 
Principle 8: Shell Energy supports the principle that network upgrade costs are allocated 
according to established cost-causation principles. There are existing provisions in most regions 
to refund the financial security posted by generator interconnection customers to fund network 
upgrades over long time frames (through FTR credits, incremental ARR/FTR allocations or other 
crediting mechanisms). Analogous credits may be currently allocated to new network load 
customers (through incremental Auction Revenue Right (ARR) allocations) that fund network 
upgrades.  
 
4 See NERC 2024 Long-Term Reliability Assessment Report available at 
https://www.nerc.com/pa/RAPA/ra/Reliability%20Assessments%20DL/NERC_Long%20Term%20Reliability%20A
ssessment_2024.pdf  

--- PAGE 8 ---
Page 8 of 12 
 
Large loads and hybrid/co-located load and generation customers covered by this ANOPR 
should qualify for either of these existing crediting mechanisms (as load or as generation) for 
network upgrades they fund; a sufficient record would need to be established on why large loads 
are differently situated enough to justify discriminatory treatment under tariff provisions 
applicable to other new generation and new load customers.  
D. Non-discriminatory open access 
Principle 9: Shell Energy supports study provisions that allow open access for entities other 
than incumbent transmission owners to construct necessary upgrades to interconnect load and 
generation. Many regions allow for generation interconnection customers to build their own 
transmission facilities before the incumbent transmission owner takes over transmission 
operations; no record has been established on why large loads that fund network upgrades should 
not be eligible for similar treatment. 
E. Accounting of supply and demand, transmission rights, and ancillary services 
Principle 10: Reply comments and subsequent rulemaking proceedings should clarify the 
interpretation and implementation of principle 10.    
1. Shell Energy supports that existing generators are required to provide advance 
notice and be studied for the reliability impacts of new co-located loads.  
2. Shell Energy does not support existing generation having discriminatory and 
punitive provisions that it must pay for network upgrades for engaging in a bilateral 
capacity sale. Existing generators that retire are not typically allocated these network 
upgrade costs, existing generators that exit a region to serve load in a different region 
are not allocated these network upgrade costs, and other generators selling power 
bilaterally are not allocated these network upgrade costs.  
3. One of the clarifications needed under this principle is how generators, new or 
existing, that sell to load under a hybrid or co-located agreement are accounted for in 
centralized capacity markets or broader RA programs- if such sales are treated as retired 
resources, or if such sales are treated as traditional bilateral contracts. The proposal as 
written could imply that the generation component of hybrid/co-located load and 
generation resources does not have a must-offer obligation into capacity markets or 
may not be tracked under existing RA and procurement programs. This is not the 
current treatment of bilateral capacity sales under RA programs, and clarity is needed 
if the required system protection facilities under principle 6 merit different treatment 
and accounting under resource adequacy programs because their paired nature nets out 
the impact to capacity market clearing. Participation in centralized capacity markets or 
other RA programs is intertwined with generator outage reporting obligations, capacity 
interconnection rights or deliverability rights, day ahead energy must-offer obligations, 
and a number of other enforceable tariff provisions that ensure that grid operators have 
sufficient transparency into unit operations to maintain reliability. Shell Energy is 

--- PAGE 9 ---
Page 9 of 12 
 
against implementation of principle 10 that reduces transparency or interpretability of 
basic market data.  
4. Shell Energy supports accurate and transparent price signals in areas where grid 
impacts limit an existing generator’s ability to sell to hybrid or co-located load. If it is 
the intention of principle 10 that grid operators have a right of first refusal to prevent 
generation resources from going behind system protection facilities to support co-
located load, it is inconsistent with current practices and economic principles if such 
rights are exercised without providing adequate compensation for the resource. 
Similarly, shifting network upgrades costs to a market participant that will not benefit 
from the new infrastructure is inconsistent with cost causation principles.  
5. Additionally, existing units likely have existing transmission access rights that 
could be released if they are instead serving on-site load. If a generator releases or sells 
NRIS, CIRs, or deliverability rights, existing generation queue customers can use that 
transmission capacity to enter operations faster instead of waiting for construction on 
new network upgrades to be completed. Existing generator interconnection study 
procedures have established process for allocating this “headroom” or surplus 
interconnection capacity to conventional generation queue customers.  
6. Defining existing generation for the purposes of an SSR/RMR type studies requires 
additional record development. A resource may be included in forward capacity market 
or other resource adequacy procurement assumptions years in advance of entering 
commercial operations, and if a bilateral contract to serve co-located load removes 
them from existing RA supply/demand accounting frameworks then that could cause 
RA market volatility. Additionally, existing tariff provisions govern how a generating 
resource that has not yet entered commercial operations will still be responsible for 
network upgrades assigned to them in the interconnection process.  
Shell Energy supports that principle 10 provides a transparency mechanism into bilateral 
transactions to serve large loads. Competitive markets require transparency so that shifts in 
underlying market fundamentals can be reflected in prices to signal and incentivize investment 
where needed. While quarterly EQR reporting may provide an existing and standardized 
transparency mechanism for intra-BAA capacity sales, the expedited study timelines proposed in 
the ANOPR may merit more frequent and timely ex-ante information on qualifying bilateral sales 
of capacity, instead of current ex-post EQR reporting.5  
Principle 11: As discussed throughout these comments, using net withdrawal/ injection as 
the quantity of transmission service may be appropriate as an option for faster study, or interim 
operations, or to allow new large loads to be served by lower tier transmission service than NITS, 
but large loads and generation should retain the right to request and be studied for full service in 
the future.  
 
5 See https://www.ferc.gov/sites/default/files/2020-05/eqr-requirements-guide.pdf  

--- PAGE 10 ---
Page 10 of 12 
 
Principle 12: Shell Energy supports that ancillary services are assigned based on the load 
total, even for hybrid/co-located load and generation facilities. This proceeding should clarify if 
ancillary services include critical reliability services such as blackstart or region-specific products 
such as ramp capability.  
Additional technical and engineering expertise should be solicited in this proceeding on how 
ancillary services can be served by the grid to a load resource isolated behind system protection 
facilities, and vice versa. If hybrid/co-located generation resources are committed to provide 
ancillary services capacity or follow an ancillary services dispatch in real time, how those services 
can reach and benefit the BPS from a generator without energy injection rights should be 
confirmed, especially if a penalty structure on energy injection as described in principle 6 is 
established.  
F. Administration and implementation 
Principle 13: Loads that have entered study under existing mechanisms should not be 
delayed while a potential new rulemaking unfolds, or subject to additional uncertainty that existing 
agreements could be invalidated by this rulemaking. It is nonsensical to delay existing and ongoing 
stakeholder processes for regional reforms that will speed load interconnection while nationwide 
policy tradeoffs are debated in this rulemaking; as with all rulemakings the final compliance filings 
will contain regional variation or require incremental tariff revisions to conform.  
Existing loads under study, and ongoing stakeholder processes to develop expedited large 
load processes should prioritize how to improve transparency to the market about the volume of 
load under study and readiness status of the load. Financial deposits to continue to progress in the 
load queue will ensure that load currently under study is validated and non-duplicative, and will 
improve reliability and confidence in load forecasts for markets to meet that demand. 
It is important that FERC and the RTO/ISOs assess the impact of these expedited requests 
on existing requests in current generator interconnection queues. Order No. 2023 sought to reduce 
the risk of last-minute withdrawals, dramatic swings in allocated network upgrade costs, and 
cascading restudies because of unreliable network models. Expedited study processes envisioned 
under this ANOPR should not cause delays, uncertainty, or allocation of new costs to generator 
interconnection customers already in queues.  
Some principles laid out in the ANOPR may overlap with Order No. 1920 compliance 
filings, which will not complete staggered compliance until the middle of 2027.6 If and how large 
loads interconnected under expedited procedures must be included in long-term load scenarios or 
forecasts, or the ex-ante plan for how the costs of long-term transmission identified under Order 
No. 1920 procedures will be allocated, and identifying transmission facilities for right sizing are 
 
6 https://www.ferc.gov/news-events/news/order-no-1920-compliance-filings-schedule  

--- PAGE 11 ---
Page 11 of 12 
 
potential areas of overlap. The Commission should address how they will assess Order No. 1920 
compliance filings that include treatment of large loads.  
Principle 14: NERC has been actively working through their Large Load Task Force to identify 
the risks to the bulk power grid from large loads and identify policy recommendations. The task 
force did not have hybrid/co-located generation operations identified as priority items, but the 
policy recommendations expected to be released Quarter 1 2026, the draft reliability guidelines 
scheduled for NERC approval May 2026, and the NERC Data Center Technical Conference 
scheduled for February 2026 will provide important insights to the technology and engineering 
underpinning reliable integration of large loads to the bulk power system. 7 
III. 
Conclusion 
Shell Energy applauds the FERC for recognizing the seriousness and urgency of reforms 
needed to quickly interconnect large loads. The proposals highlight opportunities to standardize 
processes, increase transparency so competitive markets can respond with solutions, and 
meaningfully speed up the study timelines for new large loads without inappropriately shifting the 
cost to existing ratepayers, impacting established generator interconnection processes, or risking 
reliable operations. Shell Energy appreciates the opportunity to comment on the specific 
implementation details that FERC should consider in this rulemaking.   
 
Respectfully Submitted,  
 
/s/ Resmi Surendran 
_______________________________ 
Resmi Surendran 
Vice President, Regulatory Policy 
Shell Energy North America (US), L.P. 
1000 Main Street, Level 12 
Houston, TX 77002 
Telephone: (346) 234-0691 
Resmi.Surendran@shell.com 
 
/s/ Jennifer Fletcher 
_______________________________ 
Jennifer Fletcher 
Director, Regulatory Affairs 
Shell Energy North America (US), L.P. 
1050 K Street NW 
Washington, DC 20001 
Telephone: (858) 323-6606 
Jennifer.Fletcher@shell.com 
 
 
 
 
7 See https://www.nerc.com/globalassets/who-we-are/standing-
committees/rstc/lltf/lltf_presentations_september_25_2025.pdf  

--- PAGE 12 ---
Page 12 of 12 
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
 
I hereby certify that I have served the foregoing document upon each person listed on the 
official service list compiled by the Secretary in this proceeding. 
Dated at Washington, D.C., this 21st day of November, 2025. 
 
/s/ Jennifer Fletcher 
_______________________________ 
Jennifer Fletcher 
Director, Regulatory Affairs 
Shell Energy North America (US), L.P. 
1050 K Street NW 
Washington, DC 20001 
Telephone: (858) 323-6606 
Jennifer.Fletcher@shell.com 
 
 
