--- PAGE 1 ---
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate
Transmission System 
 
 
PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., et al. 
 
Large Loads Co-Located at Generating Facilities 
 
Constellation Energy Generation, LLC 
 
     v. 
 
PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. 
)  
)  
 
 
)  
 
)  
 
)  
)  
)  
) 
) 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
(Not consolidated) 
 
 
Docket No. EL25-49-000 
 
Docket No. AD24-11-000 
 
 
 
Docket No. EL25-20-000 
(Consolidated) 
SUPPORTING REPLY COMMENTS OF 
CONSTELLATION ENERGY GENERATION, LLC 
Constellation supports the ANOPR and submits this reply to discuss four areas of 
consensus in the record that provide the path forward on large load interconnection reform. The 
comments reveal broad agreement among the overwhelming majority who support reform that the 
Commission should (i) act quickly, (ii) focus relief in regions where there is evidence of undue 
discrimination, undue preference or unjust and unreasonable service, (iii) respect regional 
differences, and (iv) avoid unnecessary jurisdictional fights.1  
Accordingly, the Commission should issue the following two items:  
First, by the end of the year, the Commission should issue an order on the merits in the 
PJM Show Cause proceedings2 and thereby: (i) take swift action to kickstart development on 
 
1 See infra, Section I (citations to comments in the record on each of these four points).  
2 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Docket No. EL25-49-000, Large Loads Co-Located at Generating Facilities, Docket 
No. AD24-11-000, Constellation Energy Generation, LLC v. PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Docket No. EL25-20-
000 (consolidated) (collectively, “PJM Show Cause proceedings”). 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
2 
several stalled hyperscale data center projects in PJM; (ii) conclude, based on the comprehensive 
record in those proceedings, that the lack of clear rules allows the PJM Transmission Owners to 
unduly discriminate by still refusing to process large load behind-the-meter projects, while 
leveraging unfiled procedures for processing in front-of-the-meter interconnections to favor 
facilities and over which they have a monopoly; (iii) provide relief tailored to the PJM region while 
still advancing the rulemaking process; and (iv) avoid the most controversial jurisdictional 
questions over large load interconnections. Commissioners and key parties also support prompt 
guidance in PJM, and an order there can capitalize on consensus in the ANOPR record.3 
On jurisdiction, the only immediate call the Commission must make in PJM is whether to 
exercise jurisdiction over hybrid facilities’ shared point of interconnection to the grid. This is an 
easy call since the Commission already exercises jurisdiction over the generator’s interconnection, 
and jurisdiction over the same shared facilities does not bifurcate between state and federal 
 
3 See Comments of PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. at 2 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“PJM encourages FERC to seize available 
opportunities to issue nearer-term regulatory guidance on matters squarely within its wholesale and transmission 
jurisdiction”) (“PJM Comments”); see also id. at 8 (“PJM recommends FERC consideration of the robust record in 
Docket No. EL25-49, including PJM’s previously-filed response in that show cause proceeding.”); Comments of 
PPL Companies at 16 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“FERC also opened a Show Cause docket specifically for PJM’s 
consideration of co-located loads, examining whether the PJM Tariff remains just and reasonable for not providing 
sufficient guidance as to their treatment. These dockets remain open. Commission action to provide guidance on this 
subject would be welcome.”) (“PPL Comments”); Comments of AES Corporation at 14 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“AES 
notes that some of these issues are already before the Commission in existing proceedings, including the 
Commission’s FPA Section 206 Proceeding addressing co-location of large loads within PJM. To promote 
regulatory certainty, the Commission should ensure that any rules developed through this proceeding related to 
collocated generation and transmission service address and take into account the records as well.”) (footnote omitted) 
(“AES Comments”); Comments of the Electric Power Supply Association at 3 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“It would be 
entirely inconsistent with the intent of the ANOPR to further delay resolution of the Show Cause proceeding to 
clarify the rules applicable to large load interconnections in PJM, which has been awaiting Commission action based 
on an extensive record for over six months.”) (“EPSA Comments”); see also, e.g., PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 191 
FERC ¶ 61,025, at P 30, n.106 (2025) (“We fully intend to act as expeditiously as possible to address those issues, 
as we know how important it is to investors, utilities, and all interested parties to have regulatory certainty.”); FERC, 
November 20, 2025 Open Meeting, YOUTUBE (Nov. 20, 2025), at 19:39, https://www.ferc.gov/news-
events/events/november-20-2025-open-meeting-10022024 (Commissioner David Rosner expressing he is 
“confident that we can make some progress” on the open co-location proceeding in PJM); Transcript of Oct. 16, 
2025 Open Meeting at 7:14-18 (Then-Chairman David Rosner states “I’m very optimistic that the Commission will 
be ready to act later this year on our work on colocation.”). 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
3 
authority depending on the services of the moment.4 Regardless, it is now essential for the 
Commission to exercise its authority to prevent Transmission Owners from denying or 
encumbering interconnection services for large load configurations that they disfavor. 
Second, by the end of the year or as soon as possible thereafter, the Commission should 
issue a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“NOPR”) that builds upon the principles in the ANOPR 
and responds to the four areas of consensus. The NOPR should: (i) establish deadlines to meet the 
Secretary’s timeline for a final rule by April 30, 2026; (ii) solicit specific evidence of unjust and 
unreasonable service for large loads and/or undue discrimination or preference by Transmission 
Owners to support the Commission’s required Federal Power Act (“FPA”) section 206 showing in 
each region and state, as it already has in PJM; (iii) accommodate regional differences; and 
(iv) expand its jurisdictional analysis and findings based on the record, including a finding that the 
Commission has jurisdiction over hybrid facilities’ shared point of interconnection. 
In both the PJM order and the NOPR, the Commission could also address reliability 
concerns by considering improvements to load forecasting, additional demand response, and 
enhanced reliability backstop mechanisms. Constellation joined Amazon, Calpine, Google, 
Microsoft, and Talen in sponsoring a package of such reliability reforms in PJM, and Constellation 
 
4 See Comments of the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission at 11 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“There is no clear 
Congressional authorization to expand FERC jurisdiction to pure load interconnection of any size. However, if 
limited to hybrid interconnections of load and generation at the same point of interconnection, there may be greater 
room for discussion.”) (“Pennsylvania PUC Comments”); EPSA Comments at 12 (“the interconnection of the hybrid 
facility will plainly be a practice directly affecting the Commission-jurisdictional wholesale rates of the 
interconnected or interconnecting generation facilities.”); Comments of the Solar Energy Industries Association at 
10, 14 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“Jurisdiction should be limited to interconnections directly to transmission facilities” 
and noting that the ANOPR defines “Hybrid Facilities” as loads that “share a point of interconnection with new or 
existing generation facilities.”) (“SEIA Comments”); Comments of Eolian L.P. at 5 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“the 
interconnection of large loads to the interstate transmission system is a transmission service in precisely the same 
way that the interconnection of generators to the transmission system is a transmission service.”) (“Eolian 
Comments”). 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
4 
further proposed those reforms in its initial comments in this proceeding.5 However, the 
Commission should reject “Bring Your Own Generation” or “BYOG” proposals (such as PJM 
Option 6 in the Show Cause proceeding)6 that would allow state-favored resources to leapfrog the 
PJM queue, and should likewise reject proposals discussed in the ANOPR comments or in the 
IMM’s recent complaint that would condition new large load interconnections (or expedited 
interconnection) upon the load bringing its own new generation.7 Discrimination against existing 
generation resources will undermine resource adequacy by signaling that existing capacity is less 
valuable than new capacity in serving load, even when existing capacity can serve load more 
efficiently. The Commission should let existing market mechanisms work to ensure resource 
adequacy. If it determines that reform is needed, it should adopt competitive market fixes that 
preserve market-based incentives for capital investment, such as the Joint Stakeholders’ Reliability 
Backstop Alternative that we proposed in our initial comments8 and that we further explain in the 
attached Affidavit of Aaron T. Patterson of the NorthBridge Group, Inc., an expert in electric 
market design.9  
Issuance of the PJM order by the end of the year and the NOPR by then or as soon thereafter 
as possible is the Commission’s best path forward to build upon the principles in the ANOPR and 
 
5 See Supporting Comments of Constellation Energy Generation, LLC at 40-43 (filed Nov. 19, 2025) (discussing 
reliability proposals) (“Constellation Comments”); see also id., Exh. 1, Joint Stakeholder Package (Amazon, 
Calpine, Constellation, Google, Microsoft, Talen), PJM CIFP – Large Load Additions, Stage 4 (Nov. 19, 2025). 
6 Constellation Comments at 15-17. 
7 See Indep. Market Monitor for PJM v. PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., FERC Docket No. EL26-30-000 (filed Nov. 25, 
2025) (“IMM Complaint”). 
8 See Constellation Comments at 42-43. PJM has the authority to file to ensure resource adequacy of its own accord 
and could submit this proposed Reliability Backstop Mechanism (a proposal with which it is very familiar given it 
was vetted extensively in the recent Critical Issue Fast Path (CIFP) stakeholder process) pursuant to section 205 of 
the FPA in time to be considered by the Commission, accepted and in place for the 2028/29 capacity auction in June 
2026.  
9 Patterson Aff., Exh. 1 hereto (discussing the “Enhanced Backstop,” which is the Reliability Backstop Alternative). 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
5 
fortify America’s leadership in AI consistent with Chairman Laura V. Swett’s “priority … to 
ensure that our country can connect and power data centers as quickly and as durably as 
possible.”10 
I. 
There Is Broad Consensus in the Record for How the Commission Should Act 
Four areas of consensus emerge from the initial comments and should guide the 
Commission’s next steps on large load interconnection reform.  
A. The Commission Should Act Quickly 
The Department of Energy,11 members of the Commission,12 and most parties agree that 
“the time has come for the Commission to act expeditiously by establishing rules that will provide 
 
 
 
10 
Video 
of 
November 
20, 
2025 
Commission 
Meeting 
at 
6:14-22 
(available 
at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_Cxq0gORq8c&embeds_referring_euri=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.ferc.gov%2
F&source_ve_path=OTY3MTQ). 
11 See U.S. Department of Energy, Secretary of Energy, Letter to FERC re: “Ensuring the Timely and Orderly 
Interconnection of Large Loads,” Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (Oct. 23, 2025) (cover letter, 
“Secretary’s Letter,” and Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking “ANOPR”), passim. 
12 See supra 2, n.3; id. 5, n.10; see also Ethan Howland, New FERC commissioners say connecting data centers is key 
priority, Utility Dive (Nov. 21, 2025), https://www.utilitydive.com/news/ferc-data-centers-swett-lacerte-
lng/806145/ (“The AI data race requires ‘bold action’ to protect the economy and national security, [Commissioner 
LaCerte] said. ‘The risks of inaction or delayed action are simply too great,’ he added. ‘I look forward to partnering 
with all stakeholders … to accomplish these goals.’”); Ethan Howland, Surging load growth requires flexibility, new 
approaches: FERC’s See, Utility Dive (Oct. 27, 2025), https://www.utilitydive.com/news/load-growth-
transmission-incentive-ferc-see/803840/ (quoting Commissioner See as stating “We’re at a time where we need 
electrons to be able to get where they need to in an efficient and a cost effective manner, and that’s going to require 
new investments and new development, and we need that quickly”); Judy W. Chang, et. al, It’s all one system: 
Integrate transmission and interconnection planning to support load growth, Utility Dive (Sept. 26, 2025), 
https://www.utilitydive.com/news/its-all-one-system-integrate-transmission-and-interconnection-plan… 
(“Generational change is occurring in the nation’s energy sector. While FERC is considering urgent short-term fixes, 
it also must evaluate longer-term solutions that shape the sector.”).  

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
6 
clarity and finality.”13 Certain states and the minority of parties that urge delay largely are 
concerned about federal-state jurisdiction and disruption to ongoing state and regional efforts.14 
 
13 Comments of the PSEG Companies at 2 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“PSEG Comments”); see also, e.g., PJM Comments 
at 2, 8 (“PJM encourages FERC to seize available opportunities to issue nearer-term regulatory guidance….”); 
Comments of Southern Maryland Electric Cooperative, Inc. at 1-2 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“SMECO respectfully 
submits that a final rule … is needed at the present time.”); Comments of Advanced Energy United at 32-33 (filed 
Nov. 21, 2025) (“Advanced Energy United encourages the Commission to meet DOE’s April 30, 2026 deadline for 
final action to the extent feasible…. The Commission should expend every possible effort to deliver a timely 
rulemaking … [and] consider moving forward on a more expedited basis on those elements … that have more 
uniform stakeholder support.”); Comments of the Electricity Customer Alliance at 6 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) 
(“Commission action is needed now to facilitate speed to power for large load customers, resolve lingering questions 
holding back progress, and protect existing customers”) (initial capitalization omitted) (“ECA Comments”); 
Comments of Talen Energy Corporation at 6 (filed Nov.21, 2025) (“…the President’s recent executive orders … 
underscore the urgency of action. The United States cannot afford to wait years for lengthy regulatory processes to 
play out while reliability risks mount, critical infrastructure projects stall, and the nation loses investment in 
groundbreaking technology to other countries because of lack of regulatory certainty. Every delay compounds the 
challenge of meeting demand and maintaining resilience while supporting economic growth.”) (“Talen Comments”); 
Initial Comments of Iron Mountain Data Centers at 1 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“Iron Mountain largely supports the 
Commission expeditiously moving the Secretary’s proposed ANOPR forward to a NOPR and eventually a FERC 
order”); Comments of Americans for a Clean Energy Grid at 11-12 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“The Commission should 
deploy every tool at its disposal to meet the goals set forth in the ANOPR, which fundamentally relies on our ability 
to build well-planned comprehensive high-capacity regional and interregional transmission as soon as possible.”); 
Comments of Geronimo Power, LLC at 1 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“Geronimo Power urges the Commission to 
promptly move forward with a notice of proposed rulemaking and final rule in this proceeding….”) (“Geronimo 
Comments”); Comments of WIRES at 2 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“To that end, WIRES generally supports the urgent 
need, as recognized by the Secretary, to expedite and streamline the interconnection of large loads.”); Initial 
Comments of Microsoft Corp. at 8 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“In consideration of the urgent need for action….”); 
Comments of the Institute for Progress at 2 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“We urge the Commission to move swiftly to a 
final rule that both enables innovation and hardens our grid infrastructure.”); EPSA Comments at 5 (“EPSA … urges 
the Commission to act on these matters in as timely and clearly a manner possible.”); Comments of Chevron U.S.A., 
Inc. at 4 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“the Commission should promptly issue a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NOPR) 
that fleshes out DOE’s initial recommendations and includes specific regulatory text”). 
14 See Comments of the Organization of PJM States, Inc. at 2-3 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“Rather than relitigating the 
long-standing division of authority related to load interconnections, it would be more efficient to search for solutions 
that promote consensus between the states and the Commission rather than rushing questionable modifications to 
long-standing, statutorily defined jurisdictional divisions.”) (“OPSI Comments”); Initial Comments of the New 
England States Committee on Electricity at 3 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“If the Commission decides to move forward 
with a rulemaking, it should first engage in a significant collaborative process with states, regional transmission 
organizations (‘RTOs’), and other stakeholders. Absent this, the Commission risks creating a one-size-fits-all rule 
that is vulnerable to legal challenge and results in significant unintended consequences due to large state and regional 
differences and existing state regulation of large load interconnection customers.”); Initial Comments of the 
Organization of MISO States, Inc. at 4 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“It is essential that the Commission, DOE, states, 
utilities, and large-load customers work together in this proceeding to identify a clear and coordinated path forward 
while acknowledging that the implications of any final rule are significant. If outcomes of this proceeding cause 
regulatory gaps, unintended consequences, or are or not in alignment with the FPA (and other long-standing systems 
of cooperative federalism established in settled case law that have governed the electric grid for decades) the desired 
speed of interconnecting large loads could come to a standstill through unintended system inefficiencies, new 
bottlenecks, and most likely – legal challenges.”) (“MISO States Comments”); Comments of the New York State 
Public Service Commission at 3 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“the Commission should pause the Proposed ANOPR 
 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
7 
Others seek to maintain the status quo.15 But most of the parties who support reform desire prompt 
action and the policy imperative for quick reform is obvious. The Commission should issue an 
order on the merits in PJM16 by the end of the year and a NOPR by then or as soon thereafter as 
possible.  
B. The Commission Should Act on Record Evidence of Undue Preference, Undue 
Discrimination and Unjust and Unreasonable Service for Large Load 
Interconnections 
Since the Commission can only issue a rule after making a showing under section 206 of 
the FPA,17 several parties argue that the Commission must make specific showings in each region 
 
proceeding and work with stakeholders to identify other efforts that should be pursued, particularly those within the 
Commission’s jurisdiction.”) (“NYS PSC Comments”); Comments of the New York Transmission Owners at 5 
(filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“[A]ny federal action that interferes with New York’s retail regulatory framework would 
necessarily invite dispute over whether the Commission has stepped beyond its statutory authority.”) (“NY 
Transmission Owners Comments”); Initial Comments of the Public Service Commission of the State of Missouri at 
13 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“The Secretary’s abbreviated deadline of April 2026 … should warrant a cautious 
approach.”); Comments of Consumers Energy Company at 13 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“Attempting to finalize a 
rulemaking of this potential magnitude within approximately six months may increase the risk of legal challenges 
concerning the Commission’s authority.… If the Commission does not take adequate time, there is a risk that 
implementation of desired reforms will be delayed and potentially frustrated.”). 
15 See Initial Comments of the PJM Transmission Owners at 2 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“Any Commission action [must] 
be appropriately targeted and respect existing paradigms and precedent regarding cost-allocation, federal and state 
jurisdiction, and protecting reliability.”) (“PJM Transmission Owners Comments”); PPL Comments at 8-9 (“Our 
states are not slowing data center interconnections down in any measurable way.… Even if a standard, federalized 
process makes sense elsewhere, it is simply not able to speed things up in Pennsylvania”); Comments of the Ohio 
Federal Energy Advocate at 2 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“we recommend the Commission continue to defer to state 
action and utility-specific tariffs to manage the interconnection of load.”); NYS PSC Comments at 3 (“[T]he 
Commission should pause the Proposed ANOPR rulemaking proceeding and work with stakeholders to identify if 
there are other efforts that should be pursued, particularly those within the Commission’s jurisdiction.”); Initial 
Comments of the WEC Companies at 4 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“The general statements in the ANOPR … do not 
meet [the] burden. And, such a finding would conflict with the demonstrable success of the current regulatory 
process in Wisconsin and the MISO region.… Wisconsin is a ‘hot spot’ for attracting data centers today and has 
been a success story in terms of interconnecting large loads to the grid.… Introducing a new, federal regulatory 
process at this stage would have the unintended effect of stalling the positive momentum.…”) (“WEC Comments”); 
Preliminary Rulemaking Comments of the Southern Companies at 6 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“[T]he Southeast… large 
loads have presented new and valuable opportunities for economic growth, while at the same time demanding that 
utilities and regulators remain flexible and capable of adapting to changing conditions.… The Southeast has swiftly 
met this challenge because of an existing productive and healthy market structure built on a foundation of effective 
state regulation.”) (“Southern Companies Comments”). 
16 See supra at 2, n .3 (citing parties supporting prompt action in PJM). 
17 16 U.S.C. § 824e(a). Section 206 requires a two-step showing: the Commission must first find that the existing 
“rate, charge, classification, rule, regulation, practice, or contract” is “unjust, unreasonable, unduly discriminatory 
 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
8 
(RTO) and state (or utility service territory) “that the existing tariffs unduly discriminate or are 
otherwise unjust and unreasonable pursuant to section 206 of the FPA.”18 In PJM, the Commission 
already has a comprehensive record of undue discrimination and need not wait further while it 
develops a record with respect to other regions. 
1. The Commission Should Act on Record Evidence in PJM 
In PJM, the Commission already has a comprehensive record, including substantial, 
unrebutted evidence of undue discrimination by PJM Transmission Owners against any behind-
the-meter configuration, and any in front-of-the-meter configuration that avoids interconnection 
through the Transmission Owners’ distribution facilities.19 The Commission’s November 1, 2024 
 
or preferential,” and then “determine the just and reasonable” replacement and “fix the same by order.” See Answer 
of Constellation Energy Generation, LLC, Docket No. EL25-49-000, et al., at 108 (Apr. 23, 2025) (explaining that 
any FPA section 206 rule must rest on a finding that the existing PJM Tariff is unjust and unreasonable and must 
specify a just and reasonable replacement rate). 
18 WEC Comments at 4; see, e.g., NYS PSC Comments at 4-5 (“Notably absent from the Proposed ANOPR is any 
evidence that utilities across the nation, or within a particular region, have unduly delayed or burdened the 
interconnection of large loads, leading to inefficient, untimely, or discriminatory load interconnections. Before 
taking the extraordinary step of exerting jurisdiction over matters that the FPA reserves to the states, it is incumbent 
on the Commission to demonstrate that an adequate basis exists warranting such unprecedented reform.”); Initial 
Comments of the Louisiana Public Service Commission and Mississippi Public Service Commission at 6 (filed 
Nov. 21, 2025) (“The ANOPR provides no sufficient demonstration that the current load interconnection process in 
MISO, SPP, Mississippi, or Louisiana violates the Federal Power Act.… The FPA requires that substantial evidence 
be presented showing that the existing rate is unjust, unreasonable, unduly discriminatory, or preferential.”); 
Southern Companies Comments at 11 (“[T]he Commission should craft rules applicable to specific regions or 
consider exempting regions that have demonstrated success in this area and do not need to adopt new rules.”); 
Comments of Entergy Operating Companies at 20 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“Where State processes are working well, 
there is no need to inject additional rules.”) (“Entergy Comments”); Comments of Duke Energy Corporation at 2 
(filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“To the extent FERC can identify specific and concrete problems within its statutory authority, 
FERC should narrowly tailor any proposed reforms to solving those specific problems.”) (“Duke Comments”). 
19 The Commission’s evidentiary record in PJM has been assembled over numerous proceedings: Exelon filed six 
separate rate cases seeking to amend the PJM Tariff to prohibit behind-the-meter co-location, which the Commission 
rejected as procedurally improper after extensive briefing before and after a deficiency notice. Atl. City Elec. Co., 
190 FERC ¶ 61,109 (2025) (Exelon cannot amend the PJM Tariff).  
Two Exelon affiliates filed a Petition for Declaratory Order on jurisdictional issues, which were fully briefed and 
remain pending. See, e.g., Protest of Constellation Energy Generation, Baltimore Gas and Elec. Co. and PECO 
Energy Co., FERC Docket No. EL24-149-000 (filed Oct. 30, 2024).  
Constellation filed a complaint against PJM seeking to memorialize prior PJM guidance on co-location and establish 
clear rules of the road, which spurred several more rounds of briefs and led to the Commission’s Show Cause Order. 
See Complaint Requesting Fast Track Processing of Constellation Energy Generation, LLC, Constellation Energy 
 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
9 
order rejecting the Susquehanna Nuclear amended Interconnection Service Agreement (“ISA”) 
cemented the Transmission Owners’ refusal to process certain large load requests – effectively 
imposing their litigation position on others – even as these issues remain pending before the 
Commission20 Constellation has documented this discrimination in the Show Cause Proceedings.21 
Some Transmission Owners act as if all large load interconnection and co-location issues have 
been resolved in their favor. Numerous projects have been stalled. This led the Commission to 
preliminarily find in the Show Cause Order that “this lack of applicable Tariff provisions raises 
the potential for undue discrimination or preferential treatment.”22  
 
Generation, LLC v. PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., FERC Docket No. EL25-20-000 (filed Nov. 22, 2024) 
(“Constellation Complaint”); see PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 190 FERC ¶ 61,115 (2025) (“PJM Show Cause 
Order”).  
The Show Cause Order itself included 38 specific briefing questions on nearly every issue raised by the ANOPR, 
with scores of parties filed responses. See Motion for Leave and Answer of Constellation Energy Generation, LLC, 
PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., FERC Docket No. EL25-49-000 (filed May 8, 2025) (demonstrating overwhelming 
record support in filed responses to meet the section 206 of the FPA showing that the existing PJM Tariff is unjust 
and unreasonable because it lacks clear rules for co-location).  
Finally, the Commission previously convened its own Large Loads technical conference with written statements and 
more rounds of comments (and a heavy focus on PJM). Large Loads Co-Located at Generating Facilities, FERC 
Docket No. AD24-11-000. 
20 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 189 FERC ¶ 61,078, at P 87 (2024) (rejecting the amended ISA because it “raise[d] 
questions regarding whether PJM intends to offer these terms to all similarly-situated interconnection customers”) 
(emphasis added); see also id. PP 87, 89 (finding that “PJM has not demonstrated that the proposed non-conforming 
provisions in the Amended ISA are necessary deviations from the pro forma ISA” because it did not “show that 
these provisions are necessary for any interest unique to the interconnection of the Susquehanna Customer Facility”). 
21 See Constellation Complaint at Exh. 5, Declaration of James R. McCoskey (“McCoskey Declaration”) (detailing 
Transmission Owner refusal to process co-location project at LaSalle Clean Energy Center); see also id., Att. 1 to 
McCoskey Declaration (Letter from E. Glenn Rippie to Carrie Allen (Nov. 12, 2024) (demanding that co-located 
loads take retail service from Transmission Owner before any further processing of interconnection studies).  
Included in the record in the Show Cause Proceedings is extensive Transmission Owner correspondence 
documenting their refusals to process co-location projects. See Constellation Complaint at 6-8 (and notes therein) 
(citing Protest of Constellation Energy Generation, Baltimore Gas and Elec. Co. and PECO Energy Co., Docket 
No. EL24-149-000 (filed Oct. 30, 2024), Exh. 2 (Correspondence with Exelon)) (attaching 13 letters). See also 
Constellation Comments at 4 n.8 (citing evidence and discussion of Transmission Owners’ refusal to cooperate).   
22 PJM Show Cause Order, 190 FERC ¶ 61,115 at P 75 (citing Constellation Complaint at 17); see also id. P 74 (“[t]he 
absence of such provisions may leave entities unable to determine what steps they can or must take to effectuate co-
location arrangements of various configurations.”). 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
10 
It has only gotten worse. Some Transmission Owners have blocked behind-the-meter 
configurations and are extending that discrimination to front-of-the-meter connections to the grid 
(hybrid facilities), requiring that these facilities take distribution service or adopt configurations 
that would make net billing impossible. At a time when innovation and efficiency are needed, they 
are instead leveraging their monopoly over interconnection to block innovative and efficient 
configurations that would provide customers with alternatives to the other services (e.g., gross-
billed network transmission service and distribution service) these Transmission Owners provide. 
The Commission should not allow Transmission Owners to continue to engage in this unduly 
discriminatory and preferential treatment. 
2. The Commission Should Request Further Evidence in Other Regions 
The NOPR should solicit specific additional evidence of unjust and unreasonable 
interconnection service for large loads and/or undue discrimination against configuration 
disfavored by Transmission Owners to support the Commission’s required showing under section 
206 of the FPA in each region or state, as it already has in PJM. This should address some states’ 
concerns that there has been no showing in the ANOPR of undue discrimination.23 The request for 
additional evidence should include Governor Shapiro and Governor Youngkin’s joint 
“suggest[ion] that FERC examine interconnection study processes, and whether it should be 
considered not just and reasonable for an interconnection request to take longer than six months, 
as recently requested by thirteen governors of both parties.”24 In the event that the Commission 
 
23 See, e.g., MISO States Comments at 7 (“the ANOPR provides no evidence or examples demonstrating that current 
state- or utility-administered interconnection processes are discriminatory or inadequate.”); OPSI Comments at 6 
(similar); NYS PSC Comments at 4-5 (similar). 
24 Shapiro & Youngkin Comments at 2 (filed Nov. 21, 2025). 

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
11 
determines it lacks a sufficient record in non-RTO regions, the NOPR may also initially focus the 
rule on RTOs.25 
The Commission should reject arguments that “utilities have no incentive to discriminate 
against large loads, which represent new retail sales and rate-base investment opportunities.”26 The 
Maryland Public Service Commission, for example, argues that “FERC issued Orders Nos. 888 
and 2003 to correct inefficiencies and discrimination by vertically integrated utilities favoring their 
own generation resources” but asserts “utilities have no comparable incentive to discriminate 
against large load, as these customers represent valuable opportunities for new retail sales and 
investment.”27 These comments overlook that Transmission Owners are transmission and 
distribution monopolists, and as Order No. 888 recognized, it is “inherent” and “inevitable” that 
transmission monopolists will “act in their own self-interest to the detriment of others by refusing 
transmission and/or providing inferior transmission to competitors”28—in this case, to force 
customers to take types of monopoly service, including gross-billed network transmission service 
and distribution service, that they do not need and do not want. It is not a question of whether 
Transmission Owners want more load—of course they do, but only in the configuration and 
designs that favor them. Utilities are discriminating against large load projects with configurations 
that they disfavor because these configurations do not allow them to build more rate base and 
 
25 See, e.g., Initial Comments of International Energy Credit Association at 7 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (stating load 
interconnection delays are less prevalent in non-RTO regions, such as the Southeast) (“International Energy 
Comments”). 
26 MISO States Comments at 8 (emphasis in original); see also Comments of MISO Transmission Owners at 16 (filed 
Nov. 21, 2025) (stating there is “robust competition among utilities” and there is “every incentive to interconnect 
loads as efficiently as possible”) (“MISO Transmission Owners Comments”).  
27 Comments of Maryland Public Service Commission at 4 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (emphasis added) (“Maryland PSC 
Comments”). 
28 Promoting Wholesale Competition Through Open Access Non-Discriminatory Transmission Servs. by Pub. Utils.; 
Recovery of Stranded Costs by Pub. Utils. & Transmitting Utils., Order No. 888, FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,036, 
31,682 (1996) (cross-referenced at 75 FERC ¶ 61,080 (1996)) (emphasis added).  

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
12 
maximize service charges. As discussed in the prior section, the record in the PJM Show Cause 
proceedings demonstrates this.29  
C. The Commission Should Accommodate Regional Differences 
RTOs and numerous other entities highlight a third area of consensus, cautioning the 
Commission to “be mindful of regional differences that might limit the success of a ‘one size fits 
all’ mandate” as “[s]hifting to standardized large load interconnection procedures could nullify 
currently effective processes and/or delay significant work that has been undertaken and currently 
ongoing.”30 The NOPR should continue to accommodate regional differences. While the NOPR is 
 
29 See, e.g., Constellation Energy Generation, LLC, Complaint Requesting Fast Track Processing, Docket No. EL25-
20-000, et al., at 8 (filed Nov. 22, 2024) (“Co-locating a new large load with a generator results in faster service on 
different terms but such projects are being held hostage by a few monopolies refusing to cooperate with reliability 
studies related to interconnection modifications.”). 
30 Comments of the Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc. at 3 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“Consequently, the 
Commission should be mindful of regional differences that might limit the success of a ‘one size fits all’ mandate.… 
Shifting to standardized large load interconnection procedures could nullify currently effective processes and/or 
delay significant work that has been undertaken and currently ongoing.”) (“MISO Comments”); see Comments of 
the Southwest Power Pool, Inc. at 2 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“SPP encourages the Commission to provide flexibility 
in any rules adopted based on the vast regional differences across the country.… Rather than pursuing a ‘one-size 
fits all’ approach, the Commission should consider allowing each Regional Transmission Organization (‘RTO’) and 
Independent System Operator (‘ISO’) … the latitude to design for these differences.”) (“SPP Comments”); PJM 
Comments at 4 (“If required, PJM would take all necessary steps to implement a federally-regulated large load 
interconnection process…any centralized and uniform process must not exclude EDCs and TOs from the study and 
agreement process”); Comments of the New York Independent System Operator, Inc. at 3-4 (filed Nov. 21, 2025), 
(“Uniform solutions will not account for variations among regions resulting from unique region-specific planning, 
interconnection approaches, and market structures.… [T]he NYISO urges the Commission to provide flexibility … 
to account for the unique circumstances and challenges that exist in its regions.”); Comments of ISO New England 
Inc. at 5 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“The Commission should provide flexibility for the New England region to formulate 
interconnection procedures that apply to transmission facilities that are already classified as PTF or Non-PTF.”) 
(“ISO-NE Comments”); see also, e.g., Comments of the State Attorneys General and Consumer Advocates at 6 
(filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“[T]he commission should also ensure that any final rule does not preclude states and regional 
transmission organizations (“RTO”) from instituting their own specific, tailored rules regarding large load 
interconnections within their territories. While the State Entities support the development of baseline federal 
standards grounded in statutory authority, different regions across the country should be allowed to build upon 
federal standards to create rules that address unique regional challenges and opportunities.”); Comments of National 
Grid PLC at 3 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“Any Commission rule in this proceeding should allow regional flexibility to 
build on procedures already in effect or to adapt general requirements to the unique needs of each region.”) 
(“National Grid Comments”); Comments of the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association at 6 (filed Nov. 21, 
2025) (“any assertion of jurisdiction over large-load interconnections should be flexible enough to accommodate 
regional differences”) (“NRECA Comments”); Comments of Eversource Energy at 5 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) 
(encouraging the Commission to provide flexibility either “in the process described in the final rule or through the 
accommodation of regional variations as part of the compliance process”). 

--- PAGE 13 ---
 
13 
underway, the Commission should also continue to act expeditiously on pending large load 
interconnection adjudications. This includes issuing a region-specific order in PJM.  
D. The Commission Should Avoid Unnecessary Jurisdictional Fights 
A fourth area of consensus is that the Commission should avoid unnecessary jurisdictional 
fights in any national rule because a “jurisdictional dispute over load interconnection would be 
counterproductive.”31 In Constellation’s view, the Commission has the authority to assert 
jurisdiction over all large load interconnections to transmission facilities. But to the extent the 
Commission chooses to proceed on narrower, less-controversial grounds, it should assert 
jurisdiction over hybrid facilities at a shared point of interconnection. The Commission’s 
jurisdiction is over the interconnection facilities, not any retail sale. As discussed immediately 
below under Principle 1, the record demonstrates that hybrid facilities provide a “crystal clear” 
and “straightforward” case for federal authority.32 In the PJM proceedings, Constellation advocates 
a replacement rate that only requires the Commission to exercise jurisdiction over hybrid facilities 
 
31 Maryland PSC Comments at 5 (“A jurisdictional dispute over load interconnection would be counterproductive.”); 
see OPSI Comments at 2-3 (“Rather than relitigating the long-standing division of authority … it would be more 
efficient to search for solutions that promote consensus … rather than rushing questionable modifications to long-
standing, statutorily defined jurisdictional divisions.”); NY Transmission Owners Comments at 11 (“Prescriptive 
federal mandates … could unsettle the well-established division of federal and state roles and disrupt ongoing state 
and regional work ….”); Comments of the Pennsylvania Office of Consumer Advocate and the Delaware Division 
of the Public Advocate at 10 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“The ANOPR risks lengthy, burdensome, and meritorious legal 
challenges … and ignores the FPA’s explicit acknowledgements of state jurisdiction.”) (“PA Office of Consumer 
Advocate & DE Division of Public Advocate Comments”); Motion to Intervene and Comments of DTE Electric 
Company at 13 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“Expanding federal jurisdiction … risks jurisdictional disputes and regulatory 
uncertainty, stifling investment … any decision to pursue such expanded jurisdiction is likely to be challenged … 
and could impede investment for years.”). 
32 Constellation Comments at 7, 10; see also EPSA Comments at 12 (“The ANOPR states that ‘the interconnection of 
large loads to the transmission system falls under a practice directly affecting Commission-jurisdictional wholesale 
electricity rates.’ That is clearly correct where hybrid facilities are concerned, for the same reason it is correct where 
the generation portion of the hybrid facility is interconnecting on a stand-alone basis.”) (citation omitted). 

--- PAGE 14 ---
 
14 
with a shared point of interconnection (PJM Option 2), thereby avoiding broad jurisdictional 
questions.33  
II. 
Constellation Continues to Support the ANOPR’s Principles with Qualifications 
Constellation reaffirms its support for the ANOPR’s fourteen principles, with limited 
qualifications.34 Constellation offers additional comments on Principles 1, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, and 
14 below. 
Principle 1—Confirming Federal Jurisdiction Over Large Load Interconnections to 
Interstate Transmission Facilities 
Constellation agrees with the ANOPR’s principle that the Commission has jurisdiction 
over interconnections directly to transmission facilities.35 As Constellation explained in its initial 
comments, such interconnections—as opposed to the rates applicable to retail customers—are well 
within the scope of the Commission’s jurisdiction under the FPA.36 But the Commission need not 
address the full scope of its jurisdiction over large load interconnections in order to resolve the 
pending PJM Show Cause proceedings. Rather, the Commission can rule immediately that it has 
jurisdiction over the interconnection of hybrid facilities—that is, configurations with a shared 
point of interconnection (i.e. the proposed PJM Option 2)—while further considering its 
jurisdiction over large load interconnections more generally during the rule-making process.37 
 
33 PJM Option 2 is firm Network Integrated Transmission Service with in-front-of-the-meter co-location. 
34 Constellation Comments at 7-43. 
35 ANOPR at ¶ 18. While the ANOPR adds that this principle is “consistent with the Commission’s seven-factor test,” 
the Commission need not resort to that test to conclude that it has jurisdiction over large load interconnections to 
interstate transmission facilities, as explained further below. 
36 See Constellation Comments at 7-13. 
37 See Constellation’s April 23, 2025 Show Cause Answer at 6.  

--- PAGE 15 ---
 
15 
Hybrid facilities present an easy jurisdictional call.38 Hybrid large loads, such as the 
configuration in PJM Option 2,39 are transmission customers that can draw power both from the 
co-located generator as well as the grid. Regulation of the interconnection between a generator and 
the interstate transmission grid is well within the scope of the Commission’s jurisdiction,40 and the 
Commission does not lose its jurisdiction over that interconnection simply because a load also 
happens to interconnect at the same point. Even the ANOPR’s critics acknowledge that “hybrid 
configurations,” among others, should be “FERC-jurisdictional.”41    
Whether the Commission has previously exercised its jurisdiction to regulate the 
interconnection of hybrid facilities does not affect its ability to do so now. And the Commission 
has good reason to exercise that jurisdiction now. As Constellation discussed in its comments and 
as demonstrated in the PJM Show Cause record, the current jurisdictional uncertainty over hybrid 
facilities has given Transmission Owners the ability to delay or deny hybrid facility proposals and 
impose terms that are neither just nor reasonable.42 
 
38 See Constellation Comments at 7-9; see also Comments of Vistra Corporation at 31-32 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“[T]he 
co-location of load and generation at a single point of interconnection—represents the lowest hanging fruit for the 
Commission to make significant progress quickly in facilitating the infrastructure needed to win the AI race.”) 
(“Vistra Comments”); Entergy Comments at 12 (“If the Commission’s action is limited to providing new rules for 
existing load that co-locates with new generation or existing generation interconnections, the Commission does not 
need to expand its exercise of jurisdiction to interconnections of retail customers.”); EPSA Comments at 12 (“The 
ANOPR states ‘the interconnection of large loads to the transmission system falls under a practice directly affecting 
Commission-jurisdictional wholesale electricity rates.’ That is clearly correct where hybrid facilities are 
concerned.”).  
39 See Constellation’s April 23, 2025 Show Cause Answer at 38. 
40 Pac. Gas & Elec. Co., 115 FERC ¶ 61,193, at P 36 (2006). 
41 Initial Comments of R Street Institute at 6-7 (filed Nov. 21, 2025); see also Pennsylvania PUC Comments at 11 
(“There is no clear Congressional authorization to expand FERC jurisdiction to pure load interconnection of any 
size. However, if limited to hybrid interconnections of load and generation at the same point-of-interconnection, 
there may be greater room for discussion.”); SEIA Comments at 8 (“This jurisdictional finding should extend to any 
generation that may be co-located with the large load.”).  
42 See Constellation Comments at 17-18; Constellation’s April 23, 2025 Show Cause Answer at 14-15. 

--- PAGE 16 ---
 
16 
The Commission, in fact, has repeatedly asserted its statutory jurisdiction to root out undue 
discrimination. For instance, in Order No. 888, the Commission asserted its jurisdiction over 
unbundled retail transmissions because “electric utilities were discriminating in the ‘bulk power 
markets,’ in violation of § 205 of the FPA, by providing either inferior access to their transmission 
networks or no access at all to third-party wholesalers of power.”43 Likewise, in Order No. 841, 
the Commission asserted its jurisdiction “to remove existing barriers to the participation of electric 
storage resources (‘ESRs’) in the Regional Transmission Organization and Independent System 
Operator markets.”44 Although various trade groups representing utilities argued that the 
Commission lacked jurisdiction to “bar[] States from ‘broadly prohibiting’ local ESRs from 
participating in RTO/ISO markets,”45 the D.C. Circuit held that the Commission properly 
exercised its jurisdiction.46 And, in Order No. 2222, the Commission similarly asserted its 
jurisdiction to remove “barriers to the participation of distributed energy resource aggregations in 
the RTO/ISO markets,” as those barriers were “reduc[ing] competition and fail[ing] to ensure just 
and reasonable rates.”47  
So too here. Transmission Owners have erected artificial barriers to the interconnection of 
large loads to the interstate grid, and the Commission should therefore exercise its jurisdiction over 
interconnections to stamp out such undue discrimination.  
 
43 New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1, 11 (2002) (affirming Order No. 888).  
44 Nat’l Ass’n of Regulatory Util. Comm’rs v. FERC, 964 F.3d 1177, 1182 (D.C. Cir. 2020). 
45 Id. at 1184. 
46 Id. at 1189. 
47 Participation of Distributed Energy Res. Aggregations in Markets Operated by Regional Transmission Org. & 
Indep. Sys. Operators, 172 FERC ¶ 61,247 at PP 26, 38-44 (2020). 

--- PAGE 17 ---
 
17 
Some commenters wrongly argue that Section 212(h) of the FPA limits the Commission’s 
jurisdiction over all large load interconnections.48 But that section does not change the analysis. 
Section 212(h) prohibits the Commission from issuing an order that is “conditioned upon or 
require[s] the transmission of electric energy: (1) directly to an ultimate consumer, or (2) to, or for 
the benefit of, an entity if such electric energy would be sold by such entity directly to an ultimate 
consumer.”49 That provision, in short, “prohibits the Commission from ordering retail wheeling 
directly to an ultimate consumer.”50 That, however, in no way limits the Commission’s jurisdiction 
to regulate a hybrid facility’s point of interconnection. As the Commission has explained, “section 
212(h) only applies to transmission orders, not requests for interconnection.”51 Transmission 
service and interconnection service are two separate Commission-regulated services,52 and an 
order regulating the terms of an interconnection—even if that interconnection is necessary to 
transmit energy—is not the same as an order directing the transmission of energy.53 Section 212(h) 
 
48 See, e.g., Initial Comments of the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners at 4 (filed Nov. 21, 
2025) (“In addition, FPA section 212(h) prohibits FERC from directing the provision of transmission directly to end 
users (retail wheeling).”); Comments of the Edison Electric Institute at 27 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“Congress’s 
addition of section 212(h) to the FPA, many decades after section 201 was enacted, may prevent a large load or its 
agent from obtaining transmission service absent state approval.”) (“EEI Comments”); NRECA Comments at 13-
14 (“[T]he Commission is prohibited from using load-interconnection service to provide transmission service to an 
ultimate consumer in violation of section 212(h) of the FPA.”).  
49 16 U.S.C. § 824k(h). 
50 Detroit Edison Co. v. FERC, 334 F.3d 48, 54 (D.C. Cir. 2003). 
51 THSI bn, LLC, 185 FERC ¶ 61,032, at P 60 (2023); see also Pac. Gas & Elec. Co. v. FERC, 44 F. App’x 170, 173 
(9th Cir. 2002).  
52 United States DOE, 124 FERC ¶ 61,018, at P 27 (2008) (“While we recognize that there may be a practical linkage 
between interconnection and transmission (i.e., which the Commission has sometimes described as delivery) service, 
the two services are nevertheless distinct, and the Commission has not required that they be linked.”). 
53 See Laguna Irrigation Dist., 95 FERC ¶ 61,305, 62,038 (2001) (“[S]ection 212(h), and its provisions, taken together, 
indicate an intent to preclude Commission orders requiring the delivery of energy either directly to retail customers, 
or indirectly to retail customers under certain circumstances. We did not do that here. We ordered only an 
interconnection.”). 

--- PAGE 18 ---
 
18 
therefore does not prohibit the Commission from asserting jurisdiction over a hybrid facility’s 
interconnection.  
Similarly, the Commission should reject the argument that its jurisdiction over large load 
interconnection is limited to “where transmission service is provided to customers as an unbundled 
product.”54 The FPA does not limit the Commission’s jurisdiction over interstate transmissions—
and, accordingly, interconnections to the interstate grid—based on whether the ultimate retail sale 
of that energy is bundled or unbundled.55 As the Commission has itself recognized, it has 
jurisdiction over interconnections “based on the nature of interconnection to the transmission 
system generally, not the purpose for such interconnection (i.e., to make a wholesale sale or to 
make a wholesale or retail purchase).”56 And, again, the ANOPR does not purport to regulate retail 
sales. 
The Commission should also confirm that its jurisdiction over the interconnection extends 
to hybrid facilities’ low-voltage facilities that step down the power from the interstate grid at the 
shared point of interconnection to the load. Some commenters suggest that “last mile” facilities 
should be deemed distribution facilities that are outside the Commission’s jurisdiction.57 But that 
 
54 Duke Comments at 7-9; see also Initial Comments of the National Association of State Utility Consumer Advocates 
at 7 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“[T]he plain language of the ANOPR would allow large loads in states without retail 
choice to bypass retail distribution utilities to take service directly from wholesale markets or from third-party 
generators that are located at a hybrid facility and directly impinge on States’ authority over retail electricity sales.”); 
Comments of the Northeastern Rural Electric Membership Corporation at 2-3 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“Granting a 
federal right of interconnection to large loads could enable these loads to obtain de facto retail access to alternative 
suppliers across the transmission system, even in states that maintain exclusive monopoly service territories and 
prohibit retail competition.”) (“NREMC Comments”).  
55 See 16 U.S.C. § 824(b)(1). 
56 PJM Show Cause Order, 190 FERC ¶ 61,115 at P 72. 
57 See, e.g.,  Pennsylvania PUC Comments (“[L]ast mile facilities used exclusively for delivering energy sold for end-
use to customers satisfy all the factors to be classified as local distribution.”); PA Office of Consumer Advocate & 
DE Division of Public Advocate Comments at 6-7 (arguing that the ANOPR “bypasses the consideration that end-
use interconnection does not generally occur directly to transmission facilities, but through local distribution 
facilities, which fall squarely within state jurisdiction” (internal quotations omitted)). 

--- PAGE 19 ---
 
19 
argument misstates the role that step-down facilities play with respect to large load 
interconnections. A large load physically cannot interconnect to the grid without a step-down 
facility that properly reduces the voltage.58 And because the step-down facility is part and parcel 
of the interconnection between the large load and the interstate grid, and because “interconnection 
is part and parcel of transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce,”59 it follows that that 
step-down facility is part and parcel of the transmission system as well.   
This conclusion is supported by the plain text of the FPA. The statute provides the 
Commission with jurisdiction over “all facilities for [the interstate] transmission of … electric 
energy.”60 Plainly understood, that means that any facility that is necessary for the interstate 
transmission of energy—and, thus, interconnections to the interstate grid—is within the scope of 
the Commission’s jurisdiction.  
While it is true that, generally, “[l]ocal distribution systems will be of reduced voltage,”61 
that does not mean that every low-voltage facility is a distribution facility. For instance, the 
Commission has previously recognized its jurisdiction over “low-voltage transmission facilities” 
when “they are used to transmit electric energy in interstate commerce on behalf of a wholesale 
purchaser.”62 Here, the purpose of low-voltage step down facilities is precisely to enable a 
Commission-jurisdictional interconnection—they exist to allow the large load to interconnect with 
 
58 See U.S. Dep’t of Energy, “How It Works: Electric Transmission & Distribution and Protective Measures” at 1, 
available 
at 
https://www.energy.gov/sites/default/files/2023-
11/FINAL_CESER%20Electricity%20Grid%20Backgrounder_508.pdf.  
59 Pac. Gas & Elec. Co., 115 FERC ¶ 61,193, at P 36 (2006). 
60 16 U.S.C. § 824(b)(1) (emphasis added). 
61 S. Cal. Edison Co., 153 FERC ¶ 61,384, at P 4 (2015). 
62 Midwest Indep. Transmission Sys. Operator, 109 FERC ¶ 61,157, at P 403 (2004). 

--- PAGE 20 ---
 
20 
the interstate grid.63 The facilities are not embedded within a distribution network or distribution 
system, nor are they used to serve multiple customers in a local area—hallmarks of typical 
distribution facilities.64 Rather, their sole purpose is to enable a Commission-jurisdictional 
interconnection, and because that is their sole purpose and function, they are within the scope of 
the Commission’s jurisdiction as well. 
And it does not matter, as some commenters observe, that “power flows into [them] … 
without being reconsigned for wholesale sale.”65 That is but one factor of the Commission’s seven-
factor test, and it alone is not dispositive. As the Supreme Court has made clear, “[t]here is no 
language in the [FPA] limiting FERC’s transmission jurisdiction to the wholesale market.”66 The 
Supreme Court in fact rejected the notion of a “bright jurisdictional line between wholesale 
transactions and retail transactions” when it comes to the Commission’s jurisdiction over the 
transmission of energy.67 Accordingly, the fact that power flows from the step-down facility to the 
large load (and not the wholesale market) has no bearing on the Commission’s transmission 
jurisdiction.   
 
63 Cf. Nat’l Ass’n of Regulatory Util. Comm’rs v. FERC, 475 F.3d 1277, 1282 (D.C. Cir. 2007) (affirming FERC’s 
jurisdiction over “interconnections to a ‘distribution’ facility when the facility is included in a public utility’s 
Commission-filed OATT and  the interconnection is for the purpose of facilitating a jurisdictional wholesale sale of 
electric energy.”).  
64 See Cal. Pac. Elec. Co., LLC, 133 FERC ¶ 61,018, at P 46 (2010). 
65 Maryland PSC Comments at 3. 
66 New York, 535 U.S. at 16. Some commenters point to the Commission’s statement in Order 888 that “even when 
our technical test for local distribution facilities identifies no local distribution facilities for a specific transaction, 
we believe that states have authority over the service of delivering electric energy to end users.” PA Office of 
Consumer Advocate & DE Division of Public Advocate Comments at 9 (quoting Order 888). But that statement was 
made specifically “in the context of retail wheeling,” not step-down facilities. Promoting Wholesale Competition 
Through Open Access Non-discriminatory Transmission Services by Public Utilities and Recovery of Stranded Costs 
by Public Utilities and Transmitting Utilities, Order No. 888, FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,783 (1996). Regardless, 
that statement simply acknowledges that, consistent with the FPA, states have jurisdiction over the local distribution 
of energy. It did not purport to curtail the Commission’s clear jurisdiction over facilities for the transmission of 
energy, especially hybrid facilities over which the Commission has long and properly asserted jurisdiction.  
67 New York, 535 U.S. at 17. 

--- PAGE 21 ---
 
21 
At any rate, the Commission’s seven factor test is of limited utility in this context. PJM, 
for example, questions whether “the Commission’s seven-factor test [is] sufficiently workable to 
apply on a case-by-case basis, with regulatory uncertainty, to inform the dividing line between 
federal and retail jurisdiction over transmission versus distribution facilities.”68 As other 
commenters have noted, the seven-factor test “would result in substantial uncertainty for loads” 
and result in a “lengthy process [that] would defeat the core purposes—speed and efficiency—
which the ANOPR had in mind.”69 And there is no need for that here. Step-down facilities, as 
integral elements of any large load interconnection, should be considered as part and parcel with 
the interconnection and thus within the Commission’s jurisdiction. 
Asserting such jurisdiction, moreover, is necessary to protect the Commission’s 
jurisdiction over interconnection. If the Commission does not assert jurisdiction over “last mile” 
(or, more accurately, “last meter”) large load interconnection facilities, Transmission Owners can 
leverage their control over that portion of those facilities to retain control over the interconnection 
of large loads more generally. That would defeat both the ANOPR’s purpose and the broad 
statutory grant of jurisdiction to the Commission over all interstate transmission, including retail 
transmissions and including interconnections. As noted above, the Commission has repeatedly 
 
68 PJM Comments at 4; see also Order No. 888-A, 62 Fed. Reg. at 12,370-71 (1996) (rejecting state commission’s 
argument that state jurisdiction should extend “to the ‘service’ of delivering electric energy to retail customers, 
which [the] state commission] would define to give it jurisdiction regardless of the nature and extent of the facilities 
used to make the delivery”). 
69 EPSA Comments at 14; see also Eolian Comments at 7 (“Unfortunately, the seven-factor test is no model of clarity, 
as evidenced by the volume of litigation it has engendered.”); Comments of NRG Energy, Inc. at 7 (filed Nov. 19, 
2025) (“As the Commission knows, application of the seven factor test can be complex and time-consuming. Indeed, 
in a number of the cases where the Commission has been tasked with applying the test, the issues have been 
sufficiently complex as to require hearing procedures, with the result that full adjudication of the issues has taken 
years.”). 

--- PAGE 22 ---
 
22 
asserted its jurisdiction to end undue discrimination by Transmission Owners in a variety of 
contexts.70 It should do so again here.    
Principle 4—Adopting Standardized Interconnection Rules and Expediting Service 
to Large Loads 
The ANOPR’s fourth principle proposes standardized study deposits, readiness 
requirements, and withdrawal penalties to large loads and hybrid facilities.71 Constellation and 
numerous other commenters agree that standards for large loads and hybrid facilities are necessary 
to deter speculative load requests, undue discrimination, and unjust and unreasonable 
interconnection terms and conditions.72 There are lessons to be learned from the standard generator 
interconnection procedures established in Order No. 2003 and revised by Order No. 2023.73 Even 
so, perfect should not be the enemy of the good. 
We also note that the Commission should be wary of arguments to adopt Transmission 
Security Agreements (“TSAs”) as a “model” for emulation.74 TSAs are only a “valuable tool to 
 
70 See supra at 16. 
71 ANOPR at ¶ 21. 
72 See, e.g., Comments of Buckeye Power, Inc. at 3 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (supporting requirements to deter speculative 
projects) (“Buckeye Power Comments”); Comments of American Transmission Company at 12 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) 
(similar) (“American Transmission Comments”); PA Office of Consumer Advocate & DE Division of Public 
Advocate Comments at 19-20 (similar); Eolian Comments at 20-21 (stating standards are necessary to deter the 
incentive and ability to discriminate against their competitors.); Vistra Comments at 24 (stating standards are 
necessary to deter the incentive and ability to discriminate against their competitors); Comments of Invenergy Wind 
Development North America LLC, et al. at 7 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (similar) (“Invenergy Comments”). 
73 See, e.g., MISO States Comments at 14-16 (discussing challenges arising under Order No. 2003 standard generator 
interconnection procedures); Geronimo Comments at 8-11 (similar); Comments of Exelon Corporation at 15-18 
(stating reliance on Order No. 2003 as a supportive analog may be “problematic”) (“Exelon Comments”); Comments 
of Southeast Public Interest Organizations (stating Order No. 2003 can inform the Commission’s approach to 
standardized interconnection procedures and requirements) (“Southeast PIO Comments”); Comments of Electricity 
Alliance at 9 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (stating the current situation resembles the circumstances leading to Order No. 
2003). 
74 Exelon Comments at 6 (commenting on the interconnection queues); see also Constellation Comments at 18; 
Comments of Indicated PJM TOs at 16-17 (filed Nov. 21, 2025); Buckeye Power Comments at 26-29; AES Comments 
at 6, 9-11. 

--- PAGE 23 ---
 
23 
meet the moment”75 if bounded by clear guideposts to avoid delay, deterrence of legitimate 
projects, and anti-competitive conduct. 
Principle 7—Expediting Interconnection Studies for Curtailable Loads 
The ANOPR proposes that interconnection studies for “large loads that agree to be 
curtailable and hybrid facilities that agree to be curtailable and dispatchable should be 
expedited.”76 There is strong record support for curtailable service.77 Voluntary curtailable load 
provisions are being developed78 and adopted.79 Commenters recognize the benefits of voluntary 
curtailable load as a bridge to firm service and a product itself. Stated simply, “[l]arge loads that 
 
75 Exelon Comments at 6; see also Constellation Comments at 19 (“Another current example of Transmission Owners 
leveraging their control over interconnection is in the negotiation of Transmission Security Agreements (“TSAs”). 
While Constellation is supportive of the concept of TSAs to deter speculative load interconnection requests, it is 
important that those TSAs contain some component reflective of upgrade costs (to create an incentive to locate most 
efficiently), and that they do not discourage legitimate projects by locking in one-size fits all gross billing 
arrangements.”). 
76 ANOPR at ¶ 24. 
77 See, e.g., Comments of the Office of the Ohio Consumers’ Counsel at 8 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“OGC recognizes 
the potential value of large loads that agree to be curtailable or dispatchable as system resources.”); Maryland PSC 
Comments at 9 (“The Maryland PSC understands … incentivizing a willingness by large load customers to curtail—
may yield system benefit.”); see also Comments of California Independent System Operator Corporation at 12-13 
(filed Nov. 21, 2025); MISO States Comments at 25; Comments of Tri-State Generation and Transmission 
Association, Inc. at 7-8 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“Tri-State Comments”); Comments of American Electric Power 
Service Corporation at 3 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“AEP Comments”); Comments of Splight Inc. at 3 (filed Nov. 21, 
2025); Eolian Comments at 1-2, 18, 24-27, 29-33; Comments of Vantage Data Centers at 7-8 (filed Nov. 21, 2025); 
Comments of Digital Power Network at 4 (filed Nov. 21, 2025); Southeast PIO Comments at 48-50; ECA Comments 
at 21; Comments of Engie North America, Inc. at 9-10 (filed Nov. 21, 2025); Comments of the Distributed Capacity 
Parties at 1-2 (filed Nov. 21, 2025); Comments of the Information Technology Industry Council at 2 (filed Nov. 21, 
2025); Comments of Verrus at 2 (filed Nov. 21, 2025); Comments of Microsoft, Inc. at 10-11 (filed Nov. 21, 2025); 
Comments of Thermal Battery Alliance at 4 (filed Nov. 21, 2025). 
78 See, e.g., SPP Comments at 6 (discussing SPP’s proposed new conditional non-firm Transmission Service process, 
known as Conditional High Impact Large Load Service (“CHILLS”) that SPP states will “allow the expedited 
connection of large loads” that are “subject to curtailment or interruption until they have the requisite transmission 
and sufficient Designated Resources.”). 
79 See Duke Comments at 6 (“[d]ue to near-term resource planning sensitivities, Duke Energy has incorporated 
temporary curtailment provisions into new retail Electric Service Agreements to provide limited-term operational 
flexibility until new resources are placed into service.”); see also Comments of Longroad Energy Holdings, LLC to 
Adopt Open Access 2.0 at 7 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (recommending ERCOT’s “Connect and Manage” process as a 
best practice); AEP Comments at 7-10 (similar). 

--- PAGE 24 ---
 
24 
agree to curtailment or other flexibility can help reduce or defer costly network upgrades, make 
better use of existing transmission capacity, and accelerate interconnection timelines.”80 
In the PJM Show Cause proceedings, PJM proposed Option 7 that would allow 
interruptible large loads to interconnect at a faster pace.81 The Commission should approve PJM 
Option 7 as modified by Constellation.82 
Principle 8—Allocating Network Upgrade Costs Based on Appropriate Studies 
Constellation takes no position on the ANOPR’s eighth principle about directly assigning 
100% of the network upgrades to large loads,83 but highlights two points raised in the ANOPR 
comments: First, numerous Transmission Owners oppose direct assignment of network upgrade 
costs to large loads, preferring to rate base these costs because according to them “it is in the 
interest of all parties to protect native retail load customers.”84 Rolling billions of dollars of 
network upgrades into rate base is not an intuitive way of “protecting customers.”85 Regardless, 
the Commission’s policy should create strong incentives for co-location because co-location 
minimizes upgrade costs, and that is ultimately what protects consumers. This means that the 
Commission should ensure that Transmission Owners’ own favored configuration—directly to 
their transmission facilities, rolled-in, and charged gross rates—is not the exclusive means to 
interconnect large loads as it creates comparatively weak incentives to co-locate. 
 
80 National Grid Comments at 5. 
81 See Answer of PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Docket No. EL25-49-000, et al., at 18-19 (filed Mar. 24, 2025). 
82 See Constellation Comments at 26; see also Answer of Constellation Energy Generation, LLC, Docket No. EL25-
49-000, et al., at 9 (filed Apr. 23, 2025). 
83 ANOPR at ¶ 25. 
84 National Grid Comments at 13. 
85 Id. (initial capitalization omitted). 

--- PAGE 25 ---
 
25 
Second, like jurisdiction, this is another fight that the Commission does not need to tackle 
head on to issue an order in PJM. Using Susquehanna Nuclear as an example, PJM explained that 
under its “Necessary Studies” process to modify an existing generator interconnection, any 
necessary cost upgrades already are assigned “directly to the cost causer, which would seem to 
address ANOPR Principle 8 without requiring any additional FERC action.”86 PJM also pointed 
out that its Necessary Studies process already studies the generator and the load together in a 
configuration like Susquehanna Nuclear’s proposed behind-the-meter service to the data center.87 
“In this sense, at least some of the reliability impacts of load integrations (in particular, the 
transmission impacts) can be accounted for where hybrid facilities are studied and implemented 
subject to necessary study and local [utility] load integration processes today.”88 
Principle 9—Granting the Customer the Option to Build 
Constellation supports extending the option to build to large-load interconnection 
customers on terms equivalent to those afforded to generator interconnection customers under 
Order No. 845.89 Providing qualified customers the ability to construct interconnection facilities 
under host-utility standards reduces delay, increases certainty, and mirrors the efficiency benefits 
the Commission recognized when adopting the generator option to build.90 Several categories of 
 
86 PJM Comments at 8-9 (emphasis added).  
87 Id. at 8. This is also relevant to ANOPR Principle 3 on combined studies, which Constellation discussed in its initial 
comments. See Constellation Comments at 13-17. 
88 PJM Comments at 9. We discuss this further infra at Principle 14. 
89 ANOPR at ¶ 26; see Reform of Generator Interconnection Procedures and Agreements, Order No. 845, 163 FERC 
¶ 61,043, at PP 85-87 (2018) (“Order No. 845”), order on reh’g, Order No. 845-A, 166 FERC ¶ 61,137 (2019), 
order on reh’g & clarification, Order No. 845-B, 168 FERC ¶ 61,092 (2019). 
90 See Order No. 845, 163 FERC ¶ 61,043 at P 86 (finding that an interconnection customer may be able to complete 
the transmission provider’s interconnection facilities and stand-alone network upgrades more quickly and at lower 
cost than the transmission provider, and citing evidence that a NextEra affiliate completed a “project one year sooner 
and for $6 million less than estimated by the transmission provider”); id. P 85 (explaining that the option to build 
“provid[es] interconnection customers more control and certainty during the design and construction phases of the 
interconnection process”).  

--- PAGE 26 ---
 
26 
commenters support extending option-to-build parity, explaining that customers capable of 
constructing facilities often do so more quickly and cost effectively than transmission owners and 
that customer construction is consistent with efficient planning practices for both load and hybrid 
resources.91 Other commenters note that customers may build sole-use facilities so long as 
construction complies with utility standards and the facilities are transferred to the utility before 
energization, a model Constellation fully supports.92 
Opposition to extending the option to build comes largely from utilities and Transmission 
Owners who argue, without meaningful evidence, that only incumbents should construct 
interconnection facilities, that large load customers lack the expertise or NERC status to do so, and 
 
91 See Comments of EDF Power Solutions, Inc. at 17 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“Load and hybrid facility interconnection 
customers should be afforded the same option to build interconnection facilities and network upgrades as currently 
provided to generator interconnection customers. In hybrid facility interconnections especially, co-located 
generation is in a good position to undertake the option to build on behalf of the co-located facilities to expedite the 
construction of eligible upgrades.”) (“EDF Comments”); Comments of LS Power Development, LLC at 10 (filed 
Nov. 21, 2025) (Large load developers should not be held back by transmission owner construction delays and cost.); 
NREMC Comments at 5 (“Interconnection customers who are not transmission owners should absolutely be 
afforded the same or equivalent option to build as generator interconnection customers. Transmission owners should 
not be permitted to delay or impede the interconnection process if the customer has the capability to construct the 
necessary facilities themselves. Allowing interconnection customers to exercise this option ensures timely project 
development, maintains a level playing field, and prevents unnecessary bottlenecks in the interconnection process.”); 
ECA Comments at 22 (“Given the scale of needed infrastructure investment needed to meet large load growth driven 
by AI, data centers, advanced manufacturing and growth in the industrial sector, the Commission should ensure that 
large load customers have the opportunity to fund and build needed upgrades to support their growth. This approach 
helps protect existing customers from inappropriate cost shifts by facilitating the ability for growing loads to pay for 
their own needs. Without this option … costs ... [are] allocated to all customers (including existing residential 
ratepayers) in their zone.”); see also NY Transmission Owners Comments at 17-18 (“Option-to-build authority is 
appropriate only for facilities used exclusively by the requesting customer … [and] [f]or any facility planned, 
modeled, or dispatched as part of the transmission network, the Transmission Owner must retain the right to fund, 
build, own, and operate the asset.”); Tri-State Comments at 8, (“Tri-State supports the interconnection customer’s 
right to build, as long as the same rules apply to the transmission owner and the interconnection customer … the 
upgrades eligible under the option to build must be stand alone upgrades and must be consistent with transmission 
owner’s design standards/requirements.”); American Transmission Comments at 20 (ATC encourages the 
Commission to incorporate transmission owner initial-funding in any future requirements related to load 
interconnection procedures.) 
92 See Comments of the Pacific Gas & Electric Company at 18 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“Ownership of the customer 
constructed facilities must be transferred to the utility after the facilities are completed and before energization.”) 
(“PG&E Comments”). 

--- PAGE 27 ---
 
27 
that customer construction could disrupt traditional utility roles or reliability obligations.93 These 
concerns repeat arguments previously raised and rejected when the Commission adopted the 
generator option to build, where the Commission determined that customers can successfully 
construct facilities under utility oversight without undermining reliability and that customer 
construction can reduce cost and accelerate timelines.94 The Commission should therefore 
maintain an option to build for large load customers.  
Principle 10—Assigning Appropriate Upgrade Costs to Co-Locating Existing 
Generation 
As Constellation anticipated, Principle 10 was seized upon by parties who claim that 
existing generators must always serve the grid—and only the grid—even though Principle 10 said 
 
93 See Comments of FirstEnergy Service Company at 10 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“Providing large load customers an 
option to build will … frustrate the ANOPR’s goal of accelerating the interconnection of large loads… The most 
efficient and cost-effective approach is to have experienced transmission-owning utilities continue to build the 
transmission facilities associated with large load customers.”); PJM Transmission Owners Comments at 32, 33, 35. 
36 (“The Commission should not grant large load customers an option to build.… [T]here is no indication that these 
entities possess the relevant knowledge, expertise, or staffing sufficient to undertake the development and 
construction of electric transmission facilities…. As end-use customers, large load customers have no obligations to 
protect or maintain the reliability of the transmission system.… An option to build … is likely to lead to disputes 
over what facilities qualify for the option.”); NY Transmission Owners Comments at 17 (“[A]ny extension of option-
to-build authority to large load customers beyond customer-specific attachment facilities could conflict with a 
Transmission Owner’s obligation to ensure safe design, construction, and operation of the network facilities that it 
owns or operates.”); MISO Comments at 26 (“[L]oads are not currently required to register with NERC” and 
therefore, Principle 9 is impractical.); see also PPL Comments at 15 (discussing allegedly poor history to generator 
option to build without citing any evidence). 
94 See Order No. 845, 163 FERC ¶ 61,043 at P 91 (2018) (“Concerns that the option to build, as revised by the Final 
Rule, will compromise system reliability are misplaced because they ignore the safeguards for reliability already in 
place for the existing option to build.… These safeguards, embodied in article 5.2 of the pro forma LGIA, require, 
among other things, that the interconnection customer exercise good utility practice and adhere to the standards and 
specifications provided in advance by the transmission providers. Further, these safeguards give the transmission 
provider the right to approve the engineering design, equipment acceptance tests, and the construction itself…In this 
Final Rule, we make no changes to the requirements in article 5.2.”); id. P 39 (“[W]e emphasize that the Final Rule 
does not relieve interconnection customers of their existing responsibilities. Nor does it alter the ownership structure 
established in Order No. 2003 for interconnection facilities or network upgrades.”); id. P 40 (“We also disagree with 
arguments that the NOPR will compromise system reliability. We find that, for those reforms for which commenters 
have expressed reliability concerns, the Commission has either maintained existing safeguards or provided 
transmission providers with sufficient discretion to ensure that the reforms will not interfere with system 
reliability…. [T]he option to build, as modified by this Final Rule, does not relax any of the safeguards that the 
Commission first established in Order No. 2003.”).  

--- PAGE 28 ---
 
28 
no such thing.95 Old Dominion Electric Cooperative states that large load interconnections “should 
not include any existing generators that deactivate all or part of their capacity to execute more 
lucrative large-load bilateral supply contracts with large loads.”96 Old Dominion Electric 
Cooperative further seeks to disqualify existing generators who undertake significant uprates, 
alleging without any evidence that this “is simply a scheme that allows merchant generation 
companies to negotiate lucrative supply contracts with wealthy new large loads at the expense of 
everyday consumers.”97 The Maryland Public Service Commission adds that “[e]xisting 
generation currently serving customers should not be allowed to suspend their existing service, in 
whole or in part, simply to serve new large load. Such a suspension would have an adverse impact 
on cost and raise energy prices. Simply upgrading the transmission network does not resolve this 
problem.”98 
But there is no rule that generators must only serve the grid, and any such rule would be 
illegal. Generators cannot physically or economically withhold their power, and with few 
limitations, they can sell it to anyone they want.99 None of the RTO, the grid, network customers, 
society at large, or previous owners acquire (or reacquire) ownership interests in a power plant no 
 
95 See Constellation Comments at 27-32 (discussing potential confusion created by the language of Principle 10). 
Principle 10 states that “an existing generating facility that seeks to enter a partial suspension to serve a new load at 
the same location must go through a system support resource (SSR)/reliability must run (RMR) type study. The 
study must consider system conditions, including forecasted load growth, at least three years after the proposed 
suspension date…. We invite comments on whether and how resource adequacy should be considered in the 
SSR/RMR type study.” ANOPR at ¶ 27. 
96 Comments of Old Dominion Electric Cooperative at 10 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (emphasis added) (“ODEC 
Comments”). 
97 Id. 
98 Maryland PSC Comments at 11-12 (emphasis added); see also PG&E Comments at 20 (“It is important that existing 
generators be available for or otherwise ensure reliability for all customers on the electrical grid rather than agreeing 
to serve a single large load customer at the expense of other customers.”). 
99 More precisely, generators can sell their power to any willing customer in their region. If they seek to sell outside 
their region, limitations may apply. The co-location configurations commonly discussed with large load 
interconnections would not involve non-regional sales. 

--- PAGE 29 ---
 
29 
matter how long the plant has been in service.100 The concept that generators may only serve the 
grid is itself antithetical to competitive power markets, which have been a core focus of federal 
electric policy for at least thirty years.101  
It also is wrong to treat an existing generator as if it is retiring when it starts serving a large 
load102 because—first and foremost—it is not retiring and is instead continuing to serve load. To 
assert otherwise would require assuming that there is no obligation to serve the large load. But 
large loads must be served like any other load.103 The Electric Power Supply Association also 
explained that even if an existing generator “is moved behind-the-meter to serve data center load,” 
 
100 Imagine a scenario where RTO price outcomes do not reflect supply and demand fundamentals (i.e., they are 
regularly too low) or are subject to frequent intervention (reduction) by other forces. Is an existing generator’s only 
recourse to declare bankruptcy? Of course not. They can look for buyers who attribute greater value to their product, 
the same as for nearly every other product in America’s free enterprise capitalist system. 
101 Promoting Wholesale Competition Through Open Access Non-Discriminatory Transmission Servs. by Pub. Utils.; 
Recovery of Stranded Costs by Pub. Utils. & Transmitting Utils., Order No. 888, FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,036, 
31,682 (1996) (cross-referenced at 75 FERC ¶ 61,080 (1996)), order on reh’g, Order No. 888-A, FERC Stats. & 
Regs. P 31,048 (cross-referenced at 78 FERC ¶ 61,220), order on reh’g, Order No. 888-B, 81 FERC 61,248 
(1997), order on reh’g, Order No. 888-C, 82 FERC ¶ 61,046 (1998), aff’d in relevant part sub nom. Transmission 
Access Pol’y Study Grp. v. FERC, 225 F.3d 667, 343 U.S. App. D.C. 151 (D.C. Cir. 2000), aff’d sub nom. N.Y. v. 
FERC, 535 U.S. 1, 122 S. Ct. 1012, 152 L. Ed. 2d 47 (2002). 
102 See Motion to Intervene and Initial Comments of the New England Consumer-Owned Systems and Energy New 
England, LLC, at 14 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (asserting that “retirement undertaken for the purpose of serving new 
private load outside of market constructs presents significant market integrity and consumer-protection concerns”) 
(“New England Consumer-Owned Systems Comments”). “Retirement … for the purpose of serving new private 
load” is akin to transferring within the company, not retiring.  
103 The Independent Market Monitor for PJM’s ANOPR Comments attach a complaint it filed against PJM claiming 
that PJM cannot serve large loads until it first assures reliability. See Comments of the Independent Market Monitor 
for PJM at 6 (filed Nov. 25, 2025). There is no such exception to the general duty to serve load. See Constellation 
Comments at 39 (“Nearly every jurisdiction in the United States has promulgated regulations establishing a duty to 
serve.”); see, e.g., 220 Ill. Comp. Stat. 5/8-101 (“[a] public utility shall, upon reasonable notice, furnish to all persons 
who may apply therefor and be reasonably entitled thereto, suitable facilities and service, without discrimination 
and without delay”); N.J. Stat. Ann. § 48:3-3(a) (“No public utility shall provide or maintain any service that is 
unsafe, improper or inadequate, or withhold or refuse any service which reasonably can be demanded or 
furnished….”); Va. Code Ann. § 56-234(A) (“It shall be the duty of every public utility to furnish reasonably 
adequate service and facilities at reasonable and just rates to any person, firm or corporation along its lines desiring 
same.”); see also PJM Transmission Owners Comments at 26 (“transmission owners have a duty to meet the 
demands of their customers”). In the same vein, the Maryland Public Service Commission cited a PJM Independent 
Market Monitor study that “removing 10,000 MW of nuclear generation in the entire PJM footprint would have 
increased capacity prices in the state of Maryland by approximately 47% ($526 million) relative to the 2025/2026 
Base Residual Auction (‘BRA’) results.” See Maryland PSC Comments at 10 (emphasis added). But there is no 
“removing” or “retiring” of nuclear generation when it will continue to serve load. 

--- PAGE 30 ---
 
30 
it “could still be serving the grid, depending on whether and how the load is connected, and the 
nature of the flexibility of the load….”104 Thus “[a]ny reliability assessment for co-located or 
hybrid arrangements must be limited to whether and how the proposed new load can be reliably 
and safely interconnected to the grid. As an example, PJM’s Necessary Study process engages in 
such an assessment.”105  
Constellation agrees that the correct reading of Principle 10 is that a “partial suspension” 
may arise “in situations in which the RTO requires the generator to delist capacity when a generator 
serves load directly behind-the-meter and the load takes no transmission service,” and that PJM’s 
“Necessary Study” process is the “reliability-type study” the ANOPR had in mind.106 The 
Southwest Power Pool Transmission Owner Group explained these “reliability” and other “RMR-
type studies” as follows: 
The [Southwest Power Pool Transmission Owner] Group agrees that an existing 
generation resource that intends to divert a material amount of its capacity to serve 
a new large load at the same location should first submit to a study by the 
transmission provider to determine whether the diversion of that generation 
capacity will undermine reliable transmission. That approach is consistent with the 
current use of studies in all organized markets (e.g., Necessary Studies in PJM, 
 
104 EPSA Comments at 17-18; see also MISO Comments at 27, explaining:  
In MISO, there can be no suspension (partial or otherwise) of a generator if it is still synchronously 
connected to the transmission system. Under MISO’s Tariff, a disconnected generator would be 
considered a generator retirement, which is reviewed pursuant to Attachment Y and includes MISO 
conducting a reliability study to determine if the proposed retirement will result in local reliability 
issues. If the study finds local reliability issues, MISO could require the generator to remain connected 
to the transmission system until necessary transmission upgrades are constructed and operational. 
MISO load would pay for the upgrades required to resolve the local reliability issues. However, if the 
disconnected generator later proposes to reconnect to the MISO transmission system, it would be 
assessed the costs of the upgrades. 
105 EPSA Comments at 18. 
106 See Constellation Comments at 27-28, citing ANOPR at ¶ 27; see also New England Consumer-Owned Systems 
Comments at 16 (opposing use of “SSR/RMR constructs” to study an existing generation’s “partial suspension” to 
serve large load as “misconceived” and “misguided for several reasons,” asserting that this would likely “impose 
substantial costs on consumers”). 

--- PAGE 31 ---
 
31 
SSR studies in MISO, and other RMR-type studies) to evaluate the reliability 
impacts caused by the loss of network generation.107 
 
This is a reasonable reading of the ANOPR. But even if, arguendo, the ANOPR intended 
that a “partial suspension” should be treated as a retirement, Shell Energy explains that “[e]xisting 
generators that retire are not typically allocated these network upgrade costs, existing generators 
that exit a region to serve load in a different region are not allocated these network upgrade costs, 
and other generators selling power bilaterally are not allocated these network upgrade costs.”108 
Finally, if, as the ANOPR suggests, the concerns animating Principle 10 are resource 
adequacy and problems with current load forecasts, the solution is to fix the market so it is better 
able to respond to the resource adequacy issue and to fix the load forecast.109 Constellation has 
proposed solutions in its initial comments.110 
 
107 Comments of the Southwest Power Pool Transmission Owner Group at 10 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (emphasis added); 
see also MISO Transmission Owners Comments at 29-30 (“If [an] existing generation resource … remains 
connected synchronously to the transmission system, such an arrangement would likely not implicate the same 
reliability concerns associated with a generator completely disconnecting from the transmission system, warranting 
a different type of study” than MISO’s “SSR studies and related provisions [that] only apply in situations where a 
generator completely disconnects from the grid because it is suspending operations or is retiring”) (emphasis 
added). 
108 See Comments of Shell Energy North America (US), L.P. at 8 (filed Nov. 24, 2025) (“Shell Energy does not support 
existing generation having discriminatory and punitive provisions that it must pay for network upgrades for engaging 
in a bilateral capacity sale.”) (“Shell Energy Comments”); see also id., seeking clarification:  
“One of the clarifications needed under this principle is how generators, new or existing, that sell to 
load under a hybrid or co-located agreement are accounted for in centralized capacity markets or 
broader RA programs—if such sales are treated as retired resources, or if such sales are treated as 
traditional bilateral contracts. The proposal as written could imply that the generation component of 
hybrid/co-located load and generation resources does not have a must-offer obligation into capacity 
markets or may not be tracked under existing RA and procurement programs. This is not the current 
treatment of bilateral capacity sales under RA programs….” 
109 See ANOPR at ¶ 27 (“The study must consider system conditions, including forecasted load growth, at least three 
years after the proposed suspension date…. We invite comments on whether and how resource adequacy should be 
considered in the SSR/RMR type study.”) (emphasis added); see also Talen Comments at 10 (“Without greater 
accuracy in the load forecast, the likely outcome [of an RMR-type study] is an overestimate of anticipated load 
causing overstudy and more upgrades than actually necessary. In addition, requiring an analysis based on three years 
of forecasted load data seems punitive and discriminatory as no other load classes are required to perform ‘forward-
looking’ studies that assess their potential impact on the transmission system.”).  
110 See Constellation Comments at 40-43 (proposing load forecast improvements and enhancements to PJM’s existing 
reliability backstop mechanism already offered in PJM’s stakeholder process). 

--- PAGE 32 ---
 
32 
Principle 11—Basing Transmission Rates on the Quantity of Capacity and Energy 
Being Transmitted Across the Transmission System to the Load  
Constellation agrees with netting charges for hybrid facilities “as that value amount reflects 
the quantity of capacity and energy that is being transmitted across the transmission system to the 
load.”111 Several Transmission Owners disagree, claiming that “to ensure fairness and avoid 
implementation complexity, the Commission should make a gross load approach the default for 
both ancillary services and transmission, subject to exception only if a utility supports and the state 
approves a different approach.”112 But it is not “fair” to ignore the fact that a hybrid facility load 
is being directly served by a generator and thus not relying on “capacity and energy … being 
transmitted across the transmission system” in assessing charges. And “complexity” is unlikely 
given that meters exist to measure precise flows. PJM and ISO-NE, moreover, have been netting 
Behind-the-Meter Generation and load for years.113 And allowing a customer to avoid gross 
charges “only if a utility supports” it would just license the very discrimination that the 
Commission should be eradicating. 
SPP raises a legitimate issue with netting: “the hybrid resource requires transmission to be 
built and maintained, yet the hybrid facility avoids the coincident peak upon which billing is 
currently calculated.”114 This is exactly why Constellation has proposed that the appropriate 
transmission rate would be the greater of net transmission usage or a standby charge based on a 
“customer-designated firm load subscription level of what the customer could draw from the 
 
111 ANOPR at ¶ 28. 
112 EEI Comments at 16. 
113 See Constellation Comments at 33-34 (citing PJM and ISO-NE netting cases). 
114 SPP Comments at 13 

--- PAGE 33 ---
 
33 
transmission system.”115 Large loads have never tried to escape paying their fair share of 
transmission charges, but it would not be fair to assume hybrid facilities use the grid like any other 
load. 
We further note that there is wide support in the record for different levels of transmission 
service to be elected by the load, including curtailable service (see Principle 7), or non-firm or “as-
available” service for various large load configurations.116 The modern grid cannot thrive in the 
Transmission Owners’ preferred service model of one-size-fits-all and everyone-pays-the-same. 
The model does not accommodate efficient outcomes needed for current load configurations, is 
not as absolute as the Transmission Owners suggest (at least not in PJM and ISO-NE where netting 
is routine for some customers) and, even if it were, is a relic whose time has passed.  
Principle 14—Meeting Reliability Standards 
The ANOPR states that “utilities serving large loads must meet all applicable NERC 
reliability standards and OATT provisions.”117 PJM highlighted the Necessary Studies process 
under its Tariff and the Susquehanna Nuclear example of its application (a proposed behind-the-
meter co-location with a data center) and concluded “at least some of the reliability impacts of 
load integrations (in particular, the transmission impacts) can be accounted for where hybrid 
facilities are studied and implemented subject to [N]ecessary [S]tudy and local [utility] load 
integration processes today.”118 If there are any additional reliability concerns (in PJM or 
 
115 See Constellation Comments at 34-35 (citing Testimony of Zachary Ming at 29 (Exh. 2 to Constellation’s April 23, 
2025 Show Cause Answer)). 
116 See, e.g., SPP Comments at 14 (“SPP and its stakeholders are currently developing … a flexible, non-firm, 
Transmission Service option” and a “usage-based transmission charge is a fundamental change in how SPP currently 
charges for Transmission Service across the SPP Transmission System.”); Eolian Comments at 34-35 (“Non-firm 
injection and withdrawal rights will be necessary to realize the economic benefits of hybrid resources”). 
117 ANOPR at ¶ 31. 
118 PJM Comments at 9.  

--- PAGE 34 ---
 
34 
elsewhere), Constellation urges that the Commission adopt the three measures that Constellation 
developed jointly with Amazon, Calpine, Google, Microsoft, and Talen to remedy reliability 
concerns without delaying large load interconnections: (1) load forecasting and modeling 
improvements, (2) new demand side products, and (3) reliability backstop enhancements. 
Commenters universally agree accurate load forecasts are critical to addressing resource 
adequacy,119 and consensus is building for new demand side products and reliability backstop 
enhancements.120 
 
119 See, e.g., Shapiro & Youngkin Comments at 1-2 (stating a large load addition proposal “could be even more 
impactful if FERC were to develop national standards and guidelines for RTO [large load addition] forecasts.”); 
Buckeye Power Comments at 20 (“Deterring speculative projects will improve load forecasts and right-size 
transmission investment.”); PSEG Comments at 9 (“[R]eforms must be implemented to ensure the accuracy of the 
regional load forecast, which is a key input into both transmission planning and capacity market parameters.”); SEIA 
Comments at 4 (“Improving the accuracy of load projections will, in turn, support more effective transmission 
planning and generation development…. When forecasts reflect realistic expectations of future demand, they help 
send accurate price signals to both suppliers and consumers, supporting the development of a reliable and cost-
effective grid. Accurate load forecasting is essential to ensure that rates remain just and reasonable.”); Comments of 
Industrial Customer Organizations at 4 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (recommending that the Commission focus on 
“enhancing the transparency of load forecasting and assumptions underlying transmission system studies”) 
(“Industrial Customer Comments”); Invenergy Comments at 6 (recommending that the Commission require 
transmission providers to “produce transparent, publicly accessible, and timely load forecast information that 
distinguishes between confirmed and speculative load” to incentivize generation development); Shell Energy 
Comments at 5-6 (stating security deposits should be constructed to discourage speculative or duplicate applications 
and enhances the accuracy of load projections); Comments of Google LLC at 14 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) 
(recommending forecasts include only large new loads backed by meaningful financial commitments); Vistra 
Comments at 31 (stating the Commission has “many tools” to improve resource adequacy including supporting load 
forecasting reforms). 
120 ISO-NE Comments at 9 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“a large load that agrees to be curtailed should participate in a 
wholesale-market based program (e.g., as a Demand Response Resource or Dispatchable Asset Related Demand).”); 
EDF Comments at 18 (“Services provided by curtailable load should be eligible for demand response revenues.”); 
Industrial Customer Comments at 4 (recommending the Commission incentivize “load flexibility commitments, 
demand response, and bring-your-own generation options”); Talen Comments at 2 (“[T]he Commission should 
direct each RTO/ISO to adopt Reliability Backstop Auctions, which is already present in PJM’s Tariff.”) (citation 
omitted). 

--- PAGE 35 ---
 
35 
General Principle—Rejecting Undue Discrimination Against Existing Generation 
While there is not a specific principle on discrimination in the ANOPR, it is one of its 
central themes.121 The “Need for Reform” section specifically calls out non-discrimination against 
“existing generation facilities:” 
In light of the unprecedented current and expected growth of large loads seeking to 
interconnect to the transmission system, and to provide open access and non-
discriminatory access to the transmission system, it has become necessary to 
standardize interconnection procedures and agreements for such loads, including 
those seeking to share a point of interconnection with new or existing generation 
facilities (hybrid facilities).122 
 
Unfortunately, this has not stopped discrimination, and some parties even re-define “hybrid 
facilities”—some expressly, some more subtly—to exclude “existing generation resources.”123  
There are at least three types of undue discrimination against existing generation resources 
either already occurring or being contemplated that the Commission must affirmatively reject: 
First, as discussed above in Section I.A.,124 Transmission Owners continue to refuse to process 
hybrid facility interconnections involving existing generation or condition service on the large 
loads arranging for other services from the Transmission Owner. Constellation previously 
proposed—and the Commission should adopt—a rule that “[n]o Transmission Owner can expedite 
 
121 See Secretary’s Letter at 1 (“large loads, including AI data centers, served by public utilities must be able to connect 
to the transmission system in a timely, orderly, and non-discriminatory manner”) (emphasis added); id. at 2 (“My 
proposal today sets forth a series of principles that are intended to ensure efficient, timely, and non-discriminatory 
load interconnections.”) (emphasis added).  
122 ANOPR at ¶ 12 (the “Need for Reform”) (emphases added). 
123 See Maryland PSC Comments at 6 (“To the extent that hybrid arrangements are to be encouraged and incentivized, 
the Maryland PSC believes that a “hybrid facility” could be defined as new load and new generation and/or storage 
that are physically located together, with the load situated in front-of-the-meter.”) (excluding “existing”); PPL 
Comments at 17 (“The ANOPR adopts two options for co-located load: those sited ‘near … a new generation 
facility’ and those ‘at the same point of interconnection as a new generation facility,’ the latter of which it defines 
as ‘hybrid facilities.’”). This is misleading as the definition of “hybrid facilities” includes “existing generation 
resources.” 
124 See supra at 5-7. 

--- PAGE 36 ---
 
36 
service or study processing for projects taking the Transmission Owner’s preferred type of service 
or configuration, or refuse to process a complete large load interconnection request on the ground 
that the large load has not ‘arranged for wholesale transmission or retail distribution service.’”125 
Second, as discussed above in Principle 10,126 some parties propose onerous studies or 
disproportionate costs on existing generation seeking to serve large loads, including “reliability” 
studies that assume the existing generator is retiring and must goldplate the grid to accommodate 
its departure. These resources are not retiring and, even if they were, this exaggerated level of 
upgrades is not what retiring resources are required to fund. These punitive measures are designed 
to prevent existing generators from serving any other customer than the grid. If reliability is the 
concern, the Commission should order appropriate reliability enhancements instead of 
discriminating against existing resources.127 
Third, many parties propose discriminatory “Bring Your Own Generation” proposals in 
which large loads can only interconnect to the grid or receive interconnection favors (expedited or 
separate interconnection process) if they bring new generation resources.128 There is not a specific 
principle on this issue in the ANOPR, but it is related to Principle 3 on “combined studies” because 
BYOG proposals typically combine interconnection studies or provide other interconnection 
 
125 Constellation Comments at 50-51 (citing PJM Show Cause Order, 190 FERC ¶ 61,115 at P 75). 
126 See supra at 27-31. 
127 See supra at 33-34. 
128 See, ODEC Comments at 10 (“While ODEC does support an option for customers to interconnect and build their 
own generation if it is located on the same parcel with a single interconnection point, the generation should be ‘new.’ 
This should not include any existing generators that deactivate all or part of their capacity to execute more lucrative 
large-load bilateral supply contracts with large loads that possess unlimited financial resources. The definition of 
new resources should be resources that have not previously injected energy into the grid.”); International Energy 
Comments at 7 (“Under the DCC’s proposed BYOG Pathway, Data Center applicants will be given an expedited 
review and approval of their interconnection of both a large load (e.g., a Data Center) and a new electric generator, 
if both are brought together to the local utility in the ‘same Locational Deliverability Area’”); see also IMM 
Complaint. 

--- PAGE 37 ---
 
37 
favors.129 Rather than opening the floodgates to the type of discrimination that most BYOG 
proposals contemplate, the Commission should first consider measures such as improved load 
forecasting, additional voluntary demand response products, and market-based solutions that 
minimize price discrimination between new and existing resources, such as the Reliability 
Backstop Alternative (“Enhanced Backstop”) advanced by the Joint Stakeholders, including 
Constellation, in the PJM stakeholder process and discussed in our initial comments.130 In the event 
PJM’s capacity auction fails to procure sufficient resources, this proposal adds to PJM’s existing 
Reliability Backstop to target incremental capacity while minimizing harms to the market.131 The 
product being procured is the Capacity Performance product, eliminating the need for the 
development of complicated qualification and performance criteria. Eligibility includes both new 
and existing resources that did not clear in the BRA, likely because they are “facing large capital 
 
129 See Constellation Comments at 14-17 (discussing discriminatory BYOG proposals). PJM Option 6 is a BYOG 
proposal that would extend favorable interconnection treatment to generation associated with large loads, but only 
new generation is eligible. Id. at 15. Other proposals would go further, extending favorable interconnection treatment 
to loads with their own new generation, “effectively creating a powerful disincentive for new load to contract with 
existing resources.” Id. at 16.  
130 See Constellation Comments at 42-43; see also Exh. 1, Patterson Aff. (discussing Enhanced Backstop proposal). 
131 See Exh. 1, Patterson Aff. at P 25 (“Enhanced Backstop … creates an additional supplemental pool of supply that 
kicks in to improve reliability only under very tight market conditions without suppressing the capacity price signal 
below where it would have otherwise cleared.”); id. (“Setting the Procurement Threshold at 98% of the Reliability 
Requirement strikes a balance between ensuring that the market is able to achieve a reasonable minimum level of 
reliability and also providing a cushion for clearing lumpy offers while still staying below the point on the demand 
curve (99% of the Reliability Requirement) where the backstop would have a suppressive impact on the clearing 
price.”); id. at P 26 (“The Procurement Threshold also limits the impact of the Enhanced Backstop on market 
outcomes in subsequent years following the year in which it is initially triggered because the Procurement Threshold 
limits the volume of supply that receives multi-year capacity commitments.”); id. at P 27 (“Limiting the maximum 
term for multi-year price cap offers to seven years and clearing these offers in increasing order of term when the 
Enhanced Backstop is triggered, with shortest-term offers cleared first, also limits the potential for long-term price 
distortion due to the operation of the Enhanced Backstop.”); id. at P 29 (“[L]imiting the Enhanced Backstop to the 
four delivery years covered by the most recent Periodic Review of the RPM limits any impact that the Enhanced 
Backstop may have on long-term market expectations and thus reduces any chilling impact it may have on market 
participants’ investment decisions.”). 

--- PAGE 38 ---
 
38 
expenditure requirements” to continue operating.132 While existing market mechanisms should be 
sufficient to ensure resource adequacy even during periods of rapid demand growth, the Joint 
Stakeholders’ Enhanced Backstop proposal, as described in more detail in the Affidavit of Aaron 
Patterson, allows capacity resources to obtain capacity price certainty for more than one year and 
should resolve any doubts and with far less market harm than discriminatory BYOG proposals. 
The FPA prohibits undue discrimination, with specific provisions against discrimination 
during shortage conditions such as those identified in the ANOPR.133 It is unlawful, for example, 
to favor new generation over existing generation in taking measures to remedy the shortage,134 or 
to decide not to serve large loads to ensure service to others.135  
Policies in favor of new resources are called “vintaging,” and they have long been 
discredited. Over a half century ago, the Commission analyzed the practice of establishing prices 
for natural gas based on contract date vintaging whereby one rate applied to “‘old’ or ‘flowing’ 
gas (based principally on historic test year costs) and another for ‘new’ gas (based on current costs 
 
132 Old Dominion Electric Cooperative asserts that “[t]he definition of new resources should be resources that have 
not previously injected energy into the grid” and opposes eligibility for existing resource that have invested in 
significant uprates. ODEC Comments at 10. Old Dominion Electric Cooperatives calls uprate eligibility “simply a 
scheme that allows merchant generation companies to negotiate lucrative supply contracts with wealthy new large 
loads at the expense of everyday consumers.” Id. To the contrary, the market signal should be for investment in 
uprates. 
133 See 16 U.S.C. § 824a(g). 
134 Id. (the “manner” of addressing “any anticipated shortage of electric energy or capacity” to “insure continuity of 
service to customers,” must ensure that all persons served by a public utility are treated “without undue prejudice or 
disadvantage”) (emphasis added). 
135 This is a fourth type of discrimination that has been prominent, at least in some proposals in PJM, which is 
discrimination against large load as compared to “regular” load. PJM’s ill-fated non-capacity-backed load (“NCBL”) 
proposal would have allowed PJM to curtail large load before other load. This is distinct from large loads voluntarily 
choosing to be curtailable (see, e.g., ANOPR Principle 7) where “the load is electing to receive a lower quality 
transmission service.” Constellation Comments at 55-57 (citing Testimony of Zachary Ming at 34 (Exh. 2 to 
Constellation’s April 23, 2025 Show Cause Answer)). 

--- PAGE 39 ---
 
39 
and designed to provide incentives for future development).”136 The Commission held that 
“vintaging by contract date is an anachronism which should be eliminated.”137 The Commission’s 
rationale was that contract vintaging did not “respond[] to the present need for increased 
exploration and development” because the incentives applied to “‘new’ gas ratemaking are totally 
lost as to undeveloped acreage committed under old contracts.”138 Vintaging suffers from the same 
old “anachronistic” flaws today as it did in 1973 when the Commission rejected it. 
But vintaging is the zombie of energy policy; no matter how many times it is struck down, 
it rises from the grave. It is a nearly irresistible policy temptation to target new resources and pay 
them extra or grant them special treatment to bring them into existence. The problem is that it takes 
more than just new resources to supply the power system—we also must retain existing resources. 
The inevitable consequence of vintaging is a constant churning of resources caused by the 
distortion of price signals designed to create resource adequacy at lowest cost via market 
competition—not special favors. 
 
136 Re Area Rate Proceeding for Rocky Mountain Area, 49 FPC 924, 942 (1973) (citing Opinion No. 468, Permian I, 
34 FPC 159, 185 (1965)). 
137 Id. 
138 Id. 

--- PAGE 40 ---
 
40 
CONCLUSION 
WHEREFORE, Constellation respectfully requests that the Commission issue an order on 
the merits in PJM139 by the end of the year and a NOPR by the end of the year or as soon as possible 
thereafter.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
December 5, 2025 
 
 
139 If the Commission determines it is not ready to issue a full order, it should still rule on hybrid facilities with a 
shared point of interconnection (resolving jurisdiction and rates) and timeliness provisions. See Constellation 
Comments at 47-51. 
 
Carrie Hill Allen 
Sr. Vice President & Deputy General Counsel 
Seth Lucia 
Assistant General Counsel 
Constellation Energy Generation, LLC 
250 Massachusetts Ave. NW, Suite 760 
Washington, D.C. 20001 
carrie.allen@constellation.com 
seth.lucia@constellation.com 
  
Christopher A. Wilson 
Managing Director, Federal Regulatory Affairs 
Constellation Energy Generation, LLC 
250 Massachusetts Ave. NW, Suite 760 
Washington, D.C. 20001 
202-347-7500 
FERCe-filings1@constellation.com 
 
/s/ Paul F. Wight  
 
 
Paul F. Wight 
Carolyn E. Clarkin 
DLA Piper LLP (US) 
500 Eighth Street NW 
Washington, D.C. 20004 
703-773-4058 
paul.wight@us.dlapiper.com  
carolyn.clarkin@us.dlapiper.com  
 
Jacob I. Chefitz 
DLA Piper LLP (US) 
1251 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, NY 10020 
212-335-4500 
jacob.chefitz@us.dlapiper.com  
 
Counsel for Constellation Energy 
Generation, LLC 

--- PAGE 41 ---
Exhibit 1 
 
Affidavit of Aaron T. Patterson 

--- PAGE 42 ---
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System 
)
)
)
Docket No. RM26-4-000
(Not consolidated)
PJM Interconnection, LLC., et al. 
)
)
)
Docket No. EL25-49-000
Large Loads Co-Located at Generating 
Facilities 
 
Constellation Energy Generation, LLC 
         v. 
PJM Interconnection, LLC 
)
)
)
)
)
)
Docket No. AD24-11-000
Docket No. EL25-20-000
(Consolidated)
 
 
AFFIDAVIT OF 
AARON T. PATTERSON  
 
December 5, 2025 
 
 

--- PAGE 43 ---
1 
 
I. QUALIFICATIONS, BACKGROUND, AND PURPOSE OF AFFIDAVIT 
A. QUALIFICATIONS 
1. 
My name is Aaron T. Patterson.  I am a partner of The NorthBridge Group, Inc 
(“NorthBridge”).  NorthBridge is a consulting firm that provides economic and strategic advice to 
the electric and natural gas industries.  My business address is 30 Monument Square, Concord MA 
01742. 
6. 
I joined NorthBridge in 2001.  Before that, I was an analyst at Lexecon, Inc., which I joined 
in 1996.  I have over 20 years of experience working with clients in the electric and natural gas 
industries.  My electric industry business consulting work has focused on market design, 
environmental policy, finance, and mergers and acquisitions.  I received a Bachelor of Arts in 
Environmental Science and Public Policy from Harvard University, and a Master of Business 
Administration from the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth.  I have previously testified before 
the Commission and have also submitted expert testimony and/or expert reports in proceedings 
before the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the Illinois Commerce Commission, the Public Utility 
Commission of Texas and the New York State Public Service Commission. 
2. 
A list of my past prepared testimony is provided as Attachment A.  
B. BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE OF AFFIDAVIT 
3. 
This affidavit describes how the Enhanced Reliability Backstop Mechanism (the “Enhanced 
Backstop”) to PJM Interconnection, LLC’s (“PJM”) Reliability Pricing Model (“RPM”) discussed 
in Constellation Energy Generation’s (“Constellation”) supporting comments in this proceeding1 
and originally proposed by a group of stakeholders2 (“Joint Stakeholders”) in PJM’s Critical Issue 
Fast Path – Large Load Additions (“CIFP-LLA”) stakeholder process would work at a high level 
in practical application for the PJM RPM auction for the 2028/29 delivery year and beyond.  I 
discuss how the Enhanced Backstop increases the ability of PJM to attract additional capacity 
supply under tight market conditions while limiting harm to competitive markets.  Finally, I 
 
1 Supporting Comments of Constellation Energy Generation LLC, Nov 21, 2025, at 42-43 and Exhibit 1. 
2 Joint Stakeholders comprise Amazon.com Inc., Calpine Corp., Constellation Energy, Google LLC, Microsoft Inc., 
and Talen Energy. 

--- PAGE 44 ---
2 
 
identify certain parameters of the Enhanced Backstop that could potentially be varied relative to 
the baseline proposal and discuss the tradeoffs of varying each parameter. 
4. 
I have previously provided testimony in the PJM Show-Cause Proceeding where I suggested 
at a high level that the Commission consider enhancements to the PJM RPM of a similar 
conceptual nature to the Enhanced Backstop.3  Subsequent to that testimony, in my capacity as an 
economic consultant, I have consulted with Constellation as it developed the Enhanced Backstop 
in conjunction with the Joint Stakeholders. 
II. PURPOSE AND OPERATION OF THE ENHANCED BACKSTOP 
C. CERTAIN DESIGN FEATURES OF THE RPM POTENTIALLY LIMIT 
CONFIDENCE IN ITS ABILITY TO BRING FORTH NEW SUPPLY UNDER 
TIGHT MARKET CONDITIONS 
7. 
While the RPM has generally been successful in bringing forth sufficient supply to meet 
PJM’s need for capacity, PJM and others have in recent years raised concerns about the ability of 
the RPM to continue to meet the market’s need for capacity under current and future tight market 
conditions.  As has been discussed in depth in this proceeding and others, PJM is currently 
experiencing an unprecedented combination of high demand growth, increased costs of and 
constraints on the installation of new generation, and retirement of existing, primarily fossil, 
resources.  This confluence of factors has led to a tightening of the capacity market in the most 
recent two RPM Base Residual Auctions (“BRA”), with prices clearing around the current Net 
Cost of New Entry (“Net CONE”) and quantity clearing around the Reliability Requirement, and 
an expectation from PJM that markets could potentially experience even greater degrees of 
tightness in future RPM auctions for 2027/28 and beyond.4  Such auction results are unsurprising 
and should be expected under these circumstances.   
 
3 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Docket No. EL25-49-000, Large Loads Co-Located at Generating Facilities, Docket 
No. AD24-11-000, Constellation Energy Generation, LLC v. PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Docket No. EL25-20-000 
(consolidated) (collectively, “PJM Show Cause proceedings”), Affidavit of Aaron T. Patterson attached as Exhibit 3 
to Answer of Constellation Energy Generation LLC, April 23, 2025 (“Patterson Show-Cause Affidavit”). 
4 See PJM Interconnection, LLC, 2025 PJM Effective Load Carrying Capability and Reserve Requirement Study, 
October 22, 2025, at Table 4.  (“PJM ELCC/RRS Study”) https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/planning/res-
adeq/elcc/2025-pjm-elcc-rrs.pdf. 

--- PAGE 45 ---
3 
 
8. 
The design of the PJM RPM potentially limits its ability to bring forth new supply under very 
tight market conditions, for two reasons.  First, the clearing price of capacity is not allowed to 
increase indefinitely as the market becomes ever-shorter but is instead administratively capped as 
a long-standing consumer cost limitation measure via the design of PJM’s capacity demand curve, 
the Variable Resource Requirement (“VRR”).  PJM’s proposed VRR curve for the 2028/29 BRA 
caps the clearing price at a projected $550 per MW-day, or approximately 1.9 times Net CONE 
for a generic new reference combustion turbine at the point where cleared capacity equals 99% or 
less of the Reliability Requirement.5  Resources whose economics require a price exceeding the 
administrative price cap thus cannot clear at their competitive offer level and are effectively unable 
to participate in the market.  And to the extent that PJM mis-calibrates the cap and sets it at a level 
that is insufficient to cover new entry costs for potential new entrants, the amount of affected 
potential new entrant capacity could be significant.   
9. 
Second, a given RPM auction only provides cleared capacity resources with a capacity 
commitment and associated revenues for a single delivery year despite the fact that many types of 
capacity resources have multi-decade economic lives.  When the market rules are fairly static and 
there is a high degree of regulatory certainty, a series of one-year commitments has proven to 
incent new entry to meet normal load growth.  The RPM has procured sufficient resources to meet 
PJM’s resource adequacy target year after year for 20 years, despite a major transition in the nature 
of the generation fleet.6  However, when there is significant regulatory uncertainty, this limitation 
increases risk for new entrant generation and raises the price they need to economically enter the 
market.  For example, a typical new entrant generation resource must weigh the commitment of 
its full construction capital versus its projected market revenues over a twenty year or more 
economic life and decide whether the projected revenues are sufficient compensation for the up-
front capital expenditures.  But because the RPM in the year in which the resource enters only 
locks in capacity revenues for its first year of operation, the resource must take the risk that the 
remaining nineteen or more years following that point will provide sufficient revenue to justify 
sinking the capital to enter the market.  Relative to a design where it is able to lock in capacity 
 
5  PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Docket No. EL26-455-000, 2025 Period Review of the Variable Resource 
Requirement Curve Shape and Key Parameters, November 7, 2025, at 44-50. 
6 See Patterson Show-Cause Affidavit at PP 18-20 for an in-depth discussion of the historical performance of the RPM 
in meeting its reliability goals at reasonable cost. 

--- PAGE 46 ---
4 
 
revenues for a longer period upon entering the market, and particularly during periods of 
significant regulatory uncertainty (such as when design features like a cap or a collar on prices 
apply for some years and not others), a resource will have a higher price threshold for new entry, 
limiting the supply of new entrant resources and increasing the population of potential new entrants 
that are potentially excluded due to the administrative price cap.  
10. The RPM does currently have a mechanism for procuring capacity on a supplemental basis 
if the RPM clears short of 99% of the reliability requirement for three consecutive years. 7  
However, under current circumstances, the three-year trigger makes this mechanism somewhat 
unresponsive to address emerging reliability concerns – by the time the market has cleared short 
for three years in a row the supply deficit could potentially get very large – and the supplemental 
procurement would occur as a separate auction outside the normal operation of the RPM, 
potentially leading to market disruptions and harm that exacerbate the problem over the long run. 
11. Given these limitations, an improved reliability backstop mechanism that is both more 
responsive and market friendly could increase confidence in the ability of the RPM to bring forth 
new supply when needed under tight market conditions.  The Enhanced Backstop has been 
carefully designed to provide increased confidence in RPM while limiting any harm to markets as 
much as possible. 
D. THE ENHANCED BACKSTOP WORKS WITHIN THE STRUCTURE OF THE 
RPM TO BRING FORTH ADDITIONAL SUPPLY UNDER TIGHT CONDITIONS 
11. The goal of the Enhanced Backstop is to offer a responsive in-market mechanism that 
expands the universe of available supply to the RPM when needed under very tight market 
conditions in order to achieve a reasonable minimum level of reliability while also minimizing 
distortions and harm to markets over time.  The Enhanced Backstop is intended to increase 
confidence in the ability of markets to bring forth new supply in particularly challenging conditions 
while minimizing any distortions of market price signals that are needed to drive investment and 
retirement decisions across the full range of market conditions. 
12. The Enhanced Backstop proposal would allow (but not require) certain resources to enter a 
muti-year offer in the RPM at the administrative price cap in lieu of making a conventional single-
 
7 PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff, Attachment DD, Section 16. 

--- PAGE 47 ---
5 
 
year offer at any allowable price level.  Resources eligible to make multi-year price-cap offers 
would include all resources that are allowed to offer at the level of the administrative price cap 
under current RPM rules.  Resources that are required to offer at a level below the price cap due 
to the operation of the Market Seller Offer Cap (“MSOC”) rules would not be eligible to make 
multi-year price-cap offers.  Thus, new entrant generation resources (including uprates of existing 
generation resources), new external resources, and all types of demand response (“DR”) resources 
(which are all exempt from the MSOC) would be eligible to make multi-year offers at the price 
cap in the BRA.  This is the appropriate level as the Enhanced Backstop would only be utilized in 
situations when the market is clearing at the price cap, and the offer level should not create an 
incentive for those resources that could offer into the BRA, but are not required to do so, to wait 
for the Enhanced Backstop to be triggered to offer.  Existing generation resources which are able 
to support a MSOC at or above the price cap would also be eligible.  While most existing resources, 
including nuclear, natural gas, and renewables, are unlikely to meet the criteria to be eligible on 
this basis, resources which face large avoidable capital expenditures, or existing external resources 
in high-priced external markets with resulting high opportunity costs could potentially qualify.  
Resources making multi-year price-cap offers would be subject to the same capacity accreditation 
rules as other capacity resources and would generally be subject to the same performance 
obligations if cleared.8 
13. Resources choosing to make multi-year price-cap offers would be required to offer at the 
administrative price cap for the delivery year of the RPM auction in question but could choose to 
offer a term of anywhere between two and seven years.  If cleared, they would assume a capacity 
obligation for each year of the term offered and would be paid their offer price in each year of that 
term. 
14. When running the RPM auction with the Enhanced Backstop in place, PJM would clear the 
market without clearing any multi-year price cap offers if the amount of cleared supply meets or 
exceeds 98% of the Reliability Requirement (the “Procurement Threshold”).  If, however, the 
 
8 The one exception from the standard rules applicable to capacity resources would be the price at which the capacity 
resource with a multi-year commitment is incorporated into the supply curve into subsequent BRAs (since they are 
already cleared with a commitment they would not make new offers in these BRAs).  For the reasons discussed below, 
such resources would be entered into the supply curve at their Net Avoidable Cost Rate to minimize price 
discrimination between the multi-year resource and the mostly existing resources that clear in the BRA.     

--- PAGE 48 ---
6 
 
RPM would otherwise clear below 98% of Reliability Requirement, PJM would clear multi-year 
price-cap offers sufficient to increase the total amount of supply cleared to 98% of the Reliability 
Requirement, but no more, unless offer lumpiness requires that PJM clear some modest amount in 
excess of the Procurement Threshold.  PJM would clear multi-year price-cap offers in order of the 
term offered, with shortest term offers cleared first, and would account for ties and offer lumpiness 
by applying similar cost-minimization principles as it currently uses to resolve such issues in 
clearing the RPM.9  If insufficient multi-year price-cap offers exist to return the total amount of 
cleared supply to the Procurement Threshold, PJM would clear all available offers.  The Enhanced 
Backstop is thus not a separate procurement but rather occurs within the normal market clearing 
operation of the RPM auctions.  Figure 1 below provides an illustrative graphical depiction of how 
the Enhanced Backstop would work in the RPM market clearing process: 
Figure 1 
 
15. Cleared multi-year price cap offers would assume a capacity obligation, with all attendant 
requirements, for their full offered term.  They would be paid their offer price (i.e., the price cap 
in the initial year in which they are cleared) for each year of the term regardless of the market 
 
9 See PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff, Attachment DD, Sections 5.12 a) and d). 
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
95%
96%
97%
98%
99%
100% 101% 102% 103% 104% 105% 106% 107%
$/MW-Day
UCAP as a % of Reliability Requirement
Illustrative Operation of Enhanced Backstop
VRR Curve 
(Proposed for 
28/29)
Administrative 
Price Cap
Ordinary RPM 
Offers
Cleared Multi-Year Price-
Cap Offers to 98% of 
Reliability Requirement
Excess Multi-Year Price 
Cap Offers Not Cleared
Market clearing 
outcome: 98% of 
Reliability Requirement 
at Price Cap

--- PAGE 49 ---
7 
 
clearing price in subsequent delivery years.  To the extent that the administrative price cap is 
increased or decreased in subsequent delivery years, cleared multi-year price cap offers wouldstill 
be paid their original offer price in the year in which they were originally cleared.  For the purposes 
of price formation in subsequent years, multi-year capacity cleared in prior years would be entered 
into the supply curve at an offer price equal to their net avoidable cost rate as an existing resource, 
calculated as the technology-specific gross existing-resource avoidable cost rate for their resource 
class minus the unit-specific energy and ancillary services offset.  Demand response resources with 
cleared multi-year price-cap offers would be entered into the supply curve at an offer price of zero 
in subsequent years. 
16. The Enhanced Backstop would only apply at the PJM Regional Transmission Organization 
(“RTO”) level and not at the level of individual Locational Delivery Areas (“LDAs”).  Thus, the 
clearing of multi-year price-cap offers would only be triggered if the RTO as a whole were short 
of 98% of the Reliability Requirement, and multi-year price-cap offers would be accepted from 
any qualifying resource without regard to location within PJM.  While it may be possible to adapt 
the Enhanced Backstop to include a locational element, doing so increases implementation 
complexity and thus increases the risk of market distortions and other unintended consequences.  
Further, given that the reliability concerns over the coming years raised by PJM appear to be 
primarily applicable to the RTO as a whole, restricting application of the Enhanced Backstop to 
the RTO level only provides a better balance of implementation speed and increased confidence 
in markets. 
17. To limit any long-term distortive impacts on the markets and to ensure that the mechanism 
does not outlast its need, the Enhanced Backstop would only be in place for the next four RPM 
delivery years corresponding to the current Quadrennial Review (2028/29 through 2031/32) and 
would sunset automatically thereafter. 
18. The existing reliability backstop provision in the tariff is not mutually exclusive with the 
Enhanced Backstop and could remain in place as an additional line of defense against sustained 
extreme market conditions. 

--- PAGE 50 ---
8 
 
III. THE ENHANCED BACKSTOP WILL INCREASE CONFIDENCE IN PJM MARKETS WHILE 
MINIMIZING PRICE DISTORTIONS AND OTHER POTENTIAL HARMS 
E. THE ENHANCED RELIABILITY BACKSTOP WILL ALLOW PJM MARKETS 
TO IMMEDIATELY ACCESS A WIDE RANGE OF SUPPLY THAT WOULD 
OTHERWISE NOT PARTICIPATE IN MARKETS 
19. Compared to the existing reliability backstop provision in the Tariff, the Enhanced Backstop 
is far more responsive in immediately bringing forth new supply in response to tight market 
conditions because it is triggered within the same RPM auction in which the tight conditions 
themselves first appear, rather than being triggered only after three years plus of tight market 
conditions.  And the Enhanced Backstop is also less disruptive to markets because it occurs in-
market rather than as a separate procurement and is designed to limit its application in a manner 
that does not affect the clearing price in the year in which it is triggered. 
20. While PJM has not yet returned to its normal three-year ahead RPM auction cadence, there 
likely are substantial pools of potential supply that the Enhanced Backstop can activate to 
materially improve reliability as early as the 2028/29 delivery year.  Allowing eligible resources 
to lock in a price at the administrative price cap for a multi-year period increases the likelihood 
that high-cost supply that would otherwise forgo participation altogether will enter a multi-year 
price-cap offer.  In particular, even if incremental greenfield new generation development is not 
feasible by 2028/29, many potential incremental sources of supply could still increase their 
participation, including: 
 Demand response: DR has in the past historically participated at higher levels than 
it has in recent years10 and it stands to reason that the ability to lock in a relatively 
high, multi-year price could attract additional DR to the market.  Unlike generation, 
DR does not need to pass through the interconnection queue and can thus rapidly 
enter the market in substantial quantities if the price signal is sufficient. 
 
10 PJM Interconnection, LLC, 2026/27 Base Residual Auction Report, July 22, 2025, Figure 3. https://www.pjm.com/-
/media/DotCom/markets-ops/rpm/rpm-auction-info/2026-2027/2026-2027-bra-report.pdf Between the 2016/17 and 
2026/27 BRAs the amount of offered demand response and price responsive demand has fallen from approximately 
15 Gigawatts of Unforced Capacity to 5.5 Gigawatts. 

--- PAGE 51 ---
9 
 
 Existing external resources: many neighboring markets have tight capacity markets 
similar to PJM which could result in existing external resources facing a very high 
opportunity cost (and resulting high MSOC) to remain in the PJM market, which 
could cause them to not clear under the status quo.  The ability to make multi-year 
offers at the price cap could provide a pathway for such resources to continue to 
clear in PJM rather than external markets. 
 In-development new generation: PJM and neighboring regions have a large volume 
of new generation working through the interconnection queue process, and many 
such resources face unexpected challenges such as high interconnection costs 
and/or loss of federal tax subsidies (for renewables).  The option to offer multi-year 
at the price cap provides a pathway for such challenged resources to potentially still 
enter the market if the need is high, rather than simply cancelling the project as 
typically occurs under the status quo. 
 
21. From the 29/30 delivery year and beyond, the universe of potential incremental supply that 
could be activated by the Enhanced Backstop mechanism will continue to expand as the supply of 
new generation becomes more elastic and PJM continues to refine and optimize its recent reforms 
to the generation interconnection queue. 
F. THE ENHANCED BACKSTOP HAS BEEN CAREFULLY DESIGNED TO 
MINIMIZE ANY HARMS TO PJM COMPETITIVE MARKETS 
22. The Enhanced Backstop is a departure from the current RPM design in that it employs 
discriminatory pricing for certain high-cost resources that would normally be unable to clear in the 
RPM due to the operation of the price cap and the single-year commitment period.  Resources that 
are cleared as multi-year price-cap offers are paid the same price as other resources in the year in 
which they clear, but are potentially paid a different, and in most instances likely higher, price than 
other resources in subsequent years of their multi-year commitment term.  While the Enhanced 
Backstop will not have an impact on price in the year in which it is triggered, it does lead to the 
procurement of high-cost resources that would not otherwise have been procured absent the 
mechanism, and the existence of those resources in subsequent years could lead to price distortions 
in those years because they represent additional infra-marginal supply that would not exist but-for 

--- PAGE 52 ---
10 
 
the Enhanced Backstop.  This is not normally an ideal market design feature, and the Commission 
should rightfully be cautious about approving market design elements that discriminate between 
different resources that are ultimately providing the same product.  However, in this case the 
Enhanced Backstop has been carefully designed to minimize any harm to markets that results from 
this underlying discriminatory element. 
23. First, limiting the amount of multi-year price-cap supply cleared to the amount needed to 
increase total cleared supply to the Procurement Threshold, but no more, is a key feature that 
reduces the distortive impact of the Enhanced Backstop on competitive markets in several 
important ways. 
24. As Figure 1 shows, setting the Procurement Threshold at 98% of the Reliability Requirement 
causes the Enhanced Backstop to only come into play under very tight market conditions when the 
RPM would already clear at the price cap.   Thus, the Enhanced Backstop will not affect market 
clearing outcomes in years in which the RPM clears below the price cap (with the exception that 
multi-year supply cleared in prior years may have an ongoing effect in subsequent years).  The 
Enhanced Backstop will also not have an effect on the clearing price in years in which it is triggered 
and any multi-year price cap offers cleared will be paid the same price as other resources cleared 
in that year because the amount of multi-year supply cleared will not push the total cleared quantity 
past the point where the demand curve begins sloping downward at 99% of the Reliability 
Requirement.  Rather, as Figure 1 shows, the operation of the Enhanced Backstop will simply 
move the market clearing outcome along the flat portion of the demand curve at the administrative 
price cap.   
25. The Enhanced Backstop thus creates an additional supplemental pool of supply that kicks in 
to improve reliability only under very tight market conditions without suppressing the capacity 
price signal below where it would have otherwise cleared.  Setting the Procurement Threshold at 
98% of the Reliability Requirement strikes a balance between ensuring that the market is able to 
achieve a reasonable minimum level of reliability and also providing a cushion for clearing lumpy 
offers while still staying below the point on the demand curve (99% of the Reliability 
Requirement) where the backstop would have a suppressive impact on the clearing price.   
26. The Procurement Threshold also limits the impact of the Enhanced Backstop on market 
outcomes in subsequent years following the year in which it is initially triggered because the 

--- PAGE 53 ---
11 
 
Procurement Threshold limits the volume of supply that receives multi-year capacity 
commitments.  As Figure 1 shows, a higher Procurement Threshold, such as 99% of the Reliability 
Requirement, would result in more capacity being procured under the Enhanced Backstop 
whenever it is triggered.  This capacity would generally remain in the market thereafter as infra-
marginal existing resources which would reduce prices relative to the but-for world where these 
incremental resources were never procured.  Thus, setting the Procurement Threshold to the 
relatively low value of 98% of the Reliability Requirement limits long-term distortions to the 
market. 
27. Limiting the maximum term for multi-year price cap offers to seven years and clearing these 
offers in increasing order of term when the Enhanced Backstop is triggered, with shortest-term 
offers cleared first, also limits the potential for long-term price distortion due to the operation of 
the Enhanced Backstop.  During the term of their multi-year commitment, capacity procured under 
the Enhanced Backstop will remain in the market as relatively low-priced supply regardless of 
subsequent market conditions or their private economics because they would be entered at an offer 
price of either their Net ACR or zero (for DR).  As discussed above, this potentially distorts and 
suppresses resource offers and thus market prices in those years, particularly for resources such as 
demand response and external resources that often do not need to sink substantial capital to enter 
the market and thus face an ongoing year-to-year marginal decision whether, and what price, to 
participate.  Limiting the maximum multi-year term to seven years and preferentially clearing the 
shortest-term offers limits this distortive effect. 
28. Similarly, the requirement that resources with multi-year capacity commitments be entered 
into the capacity offer curve at their Net ACR, rather than as price-takers, in years two and beyond 
of their multi-year commitment simulates ongoing competitive offers from these resources for the 
purposes of RPM price formation and thus partially protects against price distortions if tight market 
conditions cease to prevail during the term of the multi-year capacity commitment. 
29. And finally, limiting the Enhanced Backstop to the four delivery years covered by the most 
recent Periodic Review of the RPM limits any impact that the Enhanced Backstop may have on 
long-term market expectations and thus reduces any chilling impact it may have on market 
participants’ investment decisions. 

--- PAGE 54 ---
12 
 
IV. CERTAIN FEATURES OF THE ENHANCED BACKSTOP COULD BE VARIED TO ACHIEVE A 
DIFFERENT BALANCING OF MARKET CONFIDENCE AND HARM LIMITATION 
30. In my opinion, the various features of the Enhanced Backstop discussed above strike the best 
balance between increasing confidence in the ability of the RPM to bring forth supply when needed 
on one hand while also limiting harm to the market on the other.  That said, there are several 
features and parameters of the Enhanced Backstop that could be varied to the extent that the 
Commission or other stakeholders wish to recalibrate the balance between these two goals. 
31. First, in my view the Procurement Threshold of 98% of the Reliability Requirement is the 
most important parameter in balancing between the two goals.  While setting the Procurement 
Threshold at 98% of the Reliability Requirement strikes the best balance in my opinion, setting it 
to a higher or lower number, within certain bounds, would still achieve a workable mechanism, 
albeit one with a different tradeoff between reliability on one hand and potential harm to the market 
on the other.  Specifically, reducing the Procurement Threshold below 98% of the Reliability 
Requirement would result in the market procuring less supplemental supply when the Enhanced 
Backstop is triggered, which would result in a lower level of reliability but also less potential price 
distortion over time, while procuring more than 98% would have the opposite effect.  
32.  Figure 2 below shows the approximate tradeoff in reliability between different levels of 
Procurement Threshold, based on my analysis of information provided by PJM during the CIFP-
LLA process: 
 
 

--- PAGE 55 ---
13 
 
Figure 2 
 
Source: Based on PJM Interconnection, LLC, Estimated Preliminary Resource Adequacy 
Metrics for 2028/29 Under Different Shortage Levels, October 21, 2025.  https://www.pjm.com/-
/media/DotCom/committees-groups/cifp-lla/2025/20251021/20251021-item-03---estimated-
preliminary-resource-adequacy-metrics-for-2028-2029-under-different-shortage-levels---pjm-
presentation.pdf.  I have calculated the Unforced Capacity Supply as a percentage of the 
reliability requirement from the values provided by PJM in this document by multiplying the 
provided reserve margin expressed in ICAP terms by the pool average projected accredited 
UCAP factor for 2028/29 of 0.7616 and then dividing each value by the projected 2028/29 
forecast pool requirement of 0.9193.  
 
As Figure 2 shows, if PJM procures supply equal to the Procurement Threshold of 98% of the 
Reliability Requirement through operation of the Enhanced Backstop, PJM will achieve a loss of 
load expectation of about 0.21 events per year (1 event per 4.8 years), which is approximately 
double the long-term reliability target of 0.1 events per year (1 event per 10 years).  If the 
Procurement Threshold were raised to 99% of the Reliability Requirement, and sufficient multi-
year price cap offers existed to reach the higher threshold, the resulting reliability expectation in 
that year would improve to 0.15 events per year (1 event per 6.7 years).  However, this would 
come at the cost of procuring approximately 1.6 Gigawatts of additional unforced capacity (the 
one percent differences between a Procurement Threshold at 99% versus 98% multiplied by PJM’s 
0.00
0.10
0.20
0.30
0.40
0.50
0.60
0.70
0.80
96%
97%
98%
99%
100%
101%
LOLE
UCAP Supply as a % of UCAP Reliability Requirement
Loss of Load Expectation (LOLE) vs. Amount of Supply 
Cleared as a % of Reliability Requirement
0.1 LOLE / 1 in 
10 at 100% of 
Reliability 
Requirement
Events per XX years = 1 / LOLE
(so 0.1 LOLE = 1 event per 10 years)
0.15 LOLE 
/ 1 in 6.7 at 99% 
of Reliability 
Requirement
0.21 LOLE 
/ 1 in 4.8 at 98% 
of Reliability 
Requirement
0.29 LOLE 
/ 1 in 3.5 at 97% 
of Reliability 
Requirement

--- PAGE 56 ---
14 
 
2028/29 projected Reliability Requirement of approximately 156 Gigawatts11) under multi-year 
commitments, which would have distortive effects in subsequent years (while also increasing 
customer cost).  Conversely, setting the Procurement Threshold to 97% of the Reliability 
Requirement would result in expected reliability of 0.29 events per year (1 event per 3.5 years) if 
the Enhanced Backstop is triggered in a given year and results in supply procurement at that level, 
but would also result in a reduction in procured multi-year supply of about 1.6 Gigawatts of 
unforced capacity relative to a Procurement Threshold of 98% of the Reliability Requirement. 
33. In my opinion, a Procurement Threshold of 98% of the Reliability Requirement sets a 
reasonable balance between reliability assurance on one hand and limitation of market distortions 
on the other.  Setting the threshold at or close to 99% increases the risk that the Enhanced Backstop 
could affect market prices in the year in which it is triggered due to lumpy offers, and further 
results in a higher volume of multi-year commitments that could potentially distort prices in 
subsequent years.  Conversely, setting the procurement threshold at less than 98% would result in 
loss of load expectations more than doubling relative to the long-term reliability target in years in 
which the Enhanced Backstop is triggered, which is likely to be an unacceptably low minimum 
level of reliability for consumers.  However, a range of Procurement Threshold values between 
97% and approximately 98.5% (to allow for lumpy offers) is likely workable. 
34. Another potential lever that could be varied would be to increase the maximum allowable 
multi-year offer term from seven years to potentially as high as ten years.  Increasing the maximum 
allowable term expands the universe of potential supply that may be willing to submit multi-year 
price-cap offers because it increases the level of assured capacity revenue over time that resources 
are able to express in their offers.  This decreases the likelihood that PJM may end up in a situation 
where there are insufficient multi-year, price cap offers to reach the Procurement Threshold, with 
a resulting degradation in reliability.  Conversely, as discussed previously, increasing the 
maximum allowed term increases the potential for market distortions over the long term.  In my 
opinion, the proposed seven-year term limitation is reasonable but raising it to as high as ten years 
would still be workable. 
 
11 PJM ELCC/RRS Study at Table 4. 

--- PAGE 57 ---
15 
 
35. Finally, another lever that could further reduce any potential harm on markets would be to 
require that PJM support the continuation of the Enhanced Backstop for delivery years after 
2028/29 with an analysis of projected capacity supply and demand for the upcoming year prior to 
the BRA.  If such an analysis did not show a projected shortfall relative to the Reliability 
Requirement for that year, the Enhanced Backstop would be suspended for that year.  In any event 
the Enhanced Backstop would still sunset following the 2031/32 delivery year but could be 
suspended for some of the years prior to that point if PJM’s analysis shows that it is not needed.  
This measure would further increase confidence that the Enhanced Backstop will have a limited 
long-term effect on market price signals but may be unnecessary given that the Enhanced Backstop 
is only designed to be triggered under shortage conditions in any case. 
36. This concludes my affidavit. 
 
 

--- PAGE 58 ---

--- PAGE 59 ---
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attachment A to Patterson Affidavit 
 
 

--- PAGE 60 ---
17 
 
Aaron T. Patterson Testimony and Expert Reports 
Date 
On Behalf Of 
Commission/Court 
Subject Matter 
Docket/Case Number 
Dec-2025 
Constellation Energy Illinois Commer 
Commission 
Rebuttal Testimony 
Responding to Joint NGO 
Bring Your Own Generation 
Proposal
25-0680 
Oct-2025 
Constellation Energy Illinois Commerce 
Commission 
Rebuttal Testimony 
Responding to Joint NGO 
Bring Your Own Generation 
Proposal
25-0679 and 25-0677 
Apr-2025 
Constellation Energy FERC 
Affidavit – Resource 
Adequacy Issues in PJM 
EL25-49-000 
AD24-11-000 
EL25-20-000 
Jan-2025 
Constellation Energy FERC 
Affidavit – Treatment of RMR 
Resources in PJM Capacity 
Market
ER25-682-000 
Feb-2024 
Nuclear Energy 
Institute 
U.S. Department of 
the Treasury 
Expert Report (with Frank 
Huntowski and John 
Hutchinson) – “Assessing the 
Incrementality Requirement 
of Treasury’s Proposed 45V 
Regulations”
REG-117631-23 
Dec-2023 
Constellation Energy FERC 
Reply Affidavit – PJM 
Capacity Market Reforms 
ER24-99-000 and ER24-98-000 
Nov-2023 
Constellation Energy FERC 
Affidavit – Market Monitor 
Complaint regarding PJM 
Capacity Market
EL24-12-000 
Nov-2023 
Constellation Energy FERC 
Affidavit – PJM Capacity 
Market Reforms 
ER24-99-000 and ER24-98-000 
Nov-2022 
Constellation Energy FERC 
Joint Affidavit (with Michael 
M. Schnitzer) – New England 
Winter Gas-Electric Forum
AD22-9-000 
June-2021 Exelon Corporation 
FERC 
Reply Affidavit – PJM 
Capacity Market Seller Offer 
Cap
EL-19-63-000 
May-2021 
Exelon Corporation 
FERC 
Affidavit – PJM Capacity 
Market Seller Offer Cap 
EL19-63-000 
Nov-2020 
Exelon Corporation 
FERC 
Declaration (with Michael M. 
Schnitzer) – NYISO Capacity 
Market Buyer Side Mitigation 
EL21-07-000 

--- PAGE 61 ---
18 
 
Aaron T. Patterson Testimony and Expert Reports 
Date 
On Behalf Of 
Commission/Court 
Subject Matter 
Docket/Case Number 
Nov-2019 
Exelon Corporation 
State of New York 
Public Service 
Commission 
Expert Report – “Impact of 
Carbon Pricing on Potential 
Expanded Buyer-Side 
Mitigation in the NYISO 
Markets”
19-E-0530 
Dec-2017 
Exelon Corporation 
Public Utility 
Commission of Texas 
Expert Report (with David 
Coleman) – “Economic 
Equilibrium and Reliability in 
ERCOT”
Project No. 47199 
 
