--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE  
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
 
)  
 
 
Interstate Transmission System 
 
 
) 
 
Docket No. 
RM26-4-000 
 
 
COMMENTS OF EVERSOURCE ENERGY 
Eversource Energy (“Eversource”), on behalf of its affiliated public utilities and through 
its agent Eversource Energy Service Company,1 submits these comments in response to the 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (the “Commission” or “FERC”) Advance Notice of 
Proposed Rulemaking in the above-captioned proceeding (“ANOPR”).2  Eversource recognizes 
the unique challenges facing the electric industry caused by the sudden increase in large loads 
proposing to interconnect to transmission systems across the country, commends the 
Commission for taking concrete steps to begin to address these issues, and appreciates the 
opportunity to share its perspective in this complex and challenging area of regulation. 
I. 
CORRESPONDENCE AND COMMUNICATIONS 
Correspondence and service in this docket should be sent to the following individuals, 
who should be placed on the official service list in this proceeding: 
 
 
 
1 Eversource Energy is a public utility holding company under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 
2005.  Eversource Energy Service Company provides centralized services, such as accounting, finance, 
legal, engineering, purchasing, and other services to its electric, gas, and water affiliates.  The Eversource 
electric public utilities are The Connecticut Light and Power Company, NSTAR Electric Company, and 
Public Service Company of New Hampshire. 
2 Ensuring the timely and Orderly Interconnection of Large Loads, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (October 23, 
2025). 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
2 
 
 
 
Thomas Lemon 
Senior Counsel 
Eversource Energy Service Company 
247 Station Drive SE100 
Westwood, MA 02090 
thomas.lemon@eversource.com 
David J. Burnham 
Director, Transmission Policy 
Eversource Energy Service Company 
56 Prospect Street 
Hartford, CT 06103 
david.burnham@eversource.com 
 
 
 
II. 
DESCRIPTION OF EVERSOURCE 
Eversource Energy is a Fortune 500 energy company that operates New England’s largest 
energy delivery system, with an extensive network of over 61,000 circuit miles of electric 
transmission and distribution lines.  Eversource Energy’s utility subsidiaries transmit and deliver 
retail electricity, natural gas, and water to approximately 4.4 million customers in Connecticut, 
Massachusetts, and New Hampshire. 
The Eversource public utilities own and operate transmission facilities primarily in the 
states of Connecticut, Massachusetts, and New Hampshire.  The Eversource public utilities’ 
transmission facilities are used to provide transmission service under the ISO New England Inc. 
(“ISO-NE”) Open Access Transmission Tariff.  Eversource currently has approximately 225 
MW of transmission-interconnected load across its service territory and approximately 800 MW 
of load under study for future transmission load interconnections. 
III. 
COMMENTS 
Similar to the circumstances that prompted Order Nos. 19203 and 2023,4 the Commission 
is again faced with an unprecedented sea change in the industry: in this case the rapid onset of 
the interconnection of large loads, especially data center and electrification projects.  Eversource 
supports the need for clarity and additional certainty in the complex and unsettled regulatory 
 
3 Building for the Future Through Electric Regional Transmission Planning and Cost Allocation, Order 
No. 1920, 187 FERC ¶ 61,068 (2024), order on reh’g, Order No. 1920-A, 189 FERC ¶ 61,126 (2024). 
4 Improvements to Generator Interconnection Procs. & Agreements, Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054 
(2023), order on reh’g, Order No. 2023-A, 186 FERC ¶ 61,199 (2024). 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
3 
 
 
space of the interconnection of large loads to Commission-jurisdictional transmission systems, 
but an overly prescriptive and restrictive final rule arising out of this proceeding could result in 
more harm than the status quo to prospective large load customers, interconnecting transmission 
owners, and the public generally.  Accordingly, Eversource recommends that the focus of any 
final rule arising out of this proceeding focus on improving the efficiency of the large-load 
interconnection process without being overly prescriptive.  As further explained below, 
implementing a strict, one-size-fits-all interconnection process will impede rather than facilitate 
the interconnection of these large loads.  Given the extreme complexities and variability of the 
types of loads and their desired service arrangements, the Commission should also ensure that 
any final rule provides sufficient flexibility to address the different needs of large-load 
customers.  Also as further discussed below, Eversource appreciates that the ANOPR appears not 
to disturb, and should not disturb, certain existing beneficial transmission arrangements between 
utilities and their retail customers.  These arrangements should also remain available to 
prospective large-load customers as they are often faster and more flexible than traditional 
federal interconnection processes.  Finally, to the extent the Commission wishes to consider 
folding large loads into the Order No. 2023 cluster study process, it should not make 
participation in that process mandatory for large loads and allow these loads to either 1) receive 
electric service via retail arrangements or 2) utilize an alternative serial study process. 
A. 
The Commission should allow for sufficient flexibility to improve the 
efficiency and effectiveness of the large-load interconnection process without 
being overly prescriptive  
The ANOPR is grounded in not only making the interconnection process for large loads 
efficient, but also making it timely.5  Accordingly, the Commission should not sacrifice 
 
5 ANOPR at P 1. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
4 
 
 
timeliness and efficiency on the altar of prescriptive uniformity.  While almost all generators are 
fundamentally similar (in that their sole purpose is to generate electricity for consumption), the 
same cannot be said for loads, whose characteristics can vary wildly depending on their purpose, 
use, location, and history.  As the Commission recognizes,6 large loads are not just data centers, 
although data centers represent a significant and important form of prospective large load.  Large 
loads also include electrode boilers and chillers for large-scale steam and HVAC service, utility-
scale vehicle fleet charging, and numerous other projects essential to the development of modern 
infrastructure.  Any final rule arising out of this proceeding must be flexible enough to 
accommodate different load types and their needs.  This flexibility can manifest both in customer 
choice between a wholesale and retail process discussed below (essential in assuring that 
necessary large loads, including datacenters, are built in a timely and efficient manner) and in 
regional flexibility (as the physical and electrical topography of systems vary among regions). 
Similarly, the final rule should also be flexible enough to encompass different “hybrid” 
load arrangements, including those co-located with generation seeking standby service, behind-
the-meter generation with voluntary curtailment/isolation, and other arrangements that may be 
sought by customers.  If a full notice of proposed rulemaking issues in this proceeding, the 
Commission should provide and specifically seek comment on an exhaustive list of all different 
load interconnection arrangements that would need to be addressed and then ensure that any final 
rule provide the flexibility to address each form of load interconnection arrangement..  The final 
rule should also be flexible enough to allow transmission providers to develop and address 
region-specific rules and concerns (such as termination of co-located generator interconnection 
rights).  As the Commission notes, the reliability impacts of all permissible configurations of 
 
6 ANOPR at p. 2. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
5 
 
 
hybrid loads must be addressed through reliability, study, and operational requirements pursuant 
to any final interconnection process developed in this proceeding. 
Finally, any major change in regulation or processes in interconnection can have 
unintended consequences, and the more prescriptive such a process is the more likely that 
entities (including customers, transmission owners, and RTO/ISOs) will lack the flexibility to 
address these consequences without hindering the interconnection process.  Such flexibility 
could either be included in the process described in the final rule or through the accommodation 
of regional variations as part of the compliance process. 
B. 
The Commission should preserve existing retail transmission arrangements 
and allow future large-load interconnections to avail themselves of the retail 
process 
Eversource currently serves several retail customers at transmission voltages, primarily at 
115 kilovolts.  In the ISO-NE region, load seeking to interconnect to the transmission system 
may either apply directly to ISO-NE and the applicable local transmission owner for service or 
have their utility procure transmission service on their behalf and receive electric service through 
a state-jurisdictional retail arrangement.  Currently, if a prospective transmission-interconnected 
load applies for service through ISO-NE, such a load participates in the ISO-NE cluster study 
process as described by the interconnection procedures contained in the ISO-NE Tariff and will 
be responsible for its portion of the network upgrades identified by the cluster study.  If a 
customer instead chooses retail service, their system impact and network upgrade responsibilities 
are determined by an individual impact study performed by the Transmission Owner. 
In Eversource’s experience, prospective large loads overwhelmingly prefer the retail 
construct.  The retail arrangement for transmission-interconnected electric service provides 
significant advantages to the customer as it allows the customer to function as an end-use, state-
jurisdictional customer for the sale of electricity while simultaneously allowing the transmission 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
6 
 
 
provider to deploy its own expertise in the complex federal interconnection space.  Unlike large, 
transmission-interconnected generators whose primary purpose and activity will be in 
Commission-jurisdictional markets following their interconnection and being placed in-service, 
end-use retail (rather than wholesale) purchasers of electricity such as large loads do not engage 
in the purchase or sale of electricity as their primary business model.  Accordingly, the more 
turnkey solutions available under the umbrella of retail electric service are often preferable.   
Furthermore, state processes must necessarily account for regional differences and be 
more responsive to local needs, including potentially the flexibility required by large loads.  
Retail processes can in some cases also result in the timelier interconnection of loads relative to 
federal-jurisdictional process, primarily due to the fixed nature of cluster study processes 
required by Order No. 2023.  However, there are also advantages to directly applying for 
transmission and interconnection service via a FERC-jurisdictional process, including greater 
certainty, potentially reduced costs, and the reduction in network upgrade costs due to the 
efficiencies inherent in the shared cluster network upgrade construct.  Accordingly, the 
Commission should preserve both existing and prospective retail interconnections at 
transmission voltages in order to efficiently interconnect large loads to the system.  Given the 
nature of the system impacts of exceptionally large loads, the Commission could consider a 
voltage or MW threshold (likely much greater than 20 MW) such that transmission providers 
could still require the largest loads to participate in a federal interconnection process.  However, 
any specific threshold may result in loads artificially reducing their capacity to just below that 
threshold to avoid such requirements, which could result in greater inefficiencies overall. 
 
 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
7 
 
 
C. 
The Commission Should Not Require Load to Participate in Generator  
Cluster Study Processes 
The ANOPR states that load and hybrid facilities should be studied together with 
generating facilities “to the extent practicable.”7  While combined studies could result in 
enhanced efficiencies, the strict and often lengthy study timelines for generator interconnection 
may not be practically feasible with the tight timelines for the interconnection of large loads, 
which can either be subject to state-mandated service dates (such as through electrification) or 
whose viability is based on rapid development and construction (such as data centers).  
Accordingly, to the extent any final rule arising out of this proceeding contemplates including 
qualifying loads in the Order No. 2023-mandated cluster study process, such inclusion should be 
optional.  This will allow loads without major time pressures to reap the benefits and efficiencies 
of the cluster study process (such as reduced network upgrade costs) while not threatening the 
viability of other load projects for whom the cluster study process and timeline present 
insurmountable barriers to entry.  Furthermore, given the lengthy timelines for Order No. 2023 
cluster studies, the Commission should consider not including loads in that process at all due to 
the time pressures described above. 
The Commission also contemplates an expedited study process for curtailable or 
dispatchable loads and hybrid facilities.8  The Commission could also create an expedited study 
process for all large loads under significant time pressure, or allow those loads to avail 
themselves of state retail processes.  In Eversource’s experience, none of its current or 
prospective large load customers have expressed any interest in mandatory/dispatchable 
curtailment.  To the extent the Commission wishes to establish such an alternative process for 
 
7 ANOPR at P 20. 
8   See ANOPR at P 24. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
8 
 
 
dispatchable facilities, it should ensure that its eligibility requirements dovetail with what 
prospective customers are seeking.  Such eligibility requirements could include non-dispatchable 
but voluntarily curtailment (or perhaps a penalty rate structure for failure to follow requested 
curtailments). 
IV. 
CONCLUSION 
Eversource appreciates the opportunity to submit comments on this important matter and 
respectfully requests that the Commission consider these comments. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s Vandan Divatia 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vandan Divatia 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vice President, Transmission Policy &  
Compliance 
Eversource Energy Service Company 
 
Dated: November 21, 2025 
