--- PAGE 1 ---
 
1 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
) 
Interconnection of Large Loads to  
 
) 
 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
the Interstate Transmission System 
 
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
) 
 
 
COMMENTS OF THE ELECTRIC POWER SUPPLY ASSOCIATION 
 
In response to the Notice Inviting Comments1 issued by the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission (“FERC” or “Commission”), the Electric Power Supply Association 
(“EPSA”)2 hereby submits comments on the Secretary of Energy’s (“Secretary”) proposed 
Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) released on October 23, 2025, pursuant 
to Section 403 of the Department of Energy (“DOE”) Organization Act, for consideration and 
final action by the Commission no later than April 30, 2026.  
Specifically, in a letter to the FERC Commissioners accompanied by the ANOPR, the 
Secretary directed the Commission to initiate a rulemaking to assert jurisdiction over load 
interconnections to the bulk electric transmission system and establish standardized 
procedures for the interconnection of large loads (“Secretary’s Letter”).3 As discussed below, 
EPSA generally supports the ANOPR and offers perspectives on the need for reform, the 
Commission’s jurisdictional authority, and certain proposed principles for reform, to assist the 
 
1  
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Notice Inviting Comments, 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 (October 27, 2025). 
2  
EPSA is the national trade association representing competitive power suppliers in the U.S. EPSA 
members provide reliable and competitively priced electricity from environmentally responsible facilities using a 
diverse mix of fuels and technologies. EPSA seeks to bring the benefits of competition to all power customers. 
This pleading represents the position of EPSA as an organization but not necessarily the views of any particular 
member with respect to any issue. 
3  
Secretary of Energy’s Direction that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Initiate Rulemaking 
Procedures and Proposal Regarding the Interconnection of Large Loads Pursuant to the Secretary’s Authority 
Under Section 403 of the Department of Energy Organization Act, (October 23, 2025), available here 
https://www.energy.gov/sites/default/files/2025-10/403%20Large%20Loads%20Letter.pdf. 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
2 
 
Commission in its consideration and development of next steps in the proceeding, including a 
possible Notice of Proposed Rulemaking. 
I. 
BACKGROUND 
The Secretary offers proposed text in the ANOPR based on a belief that the 
interconnection of large loads (greater than 20 MW) directly to the interstate transmission 
system “falls squarely within the Commission’s jurisdiction.” The ANOPR outlines the legal 
justifications for the Commission’s jurisdiction over such interconnections, including noting 
FERC's responsibility to ensure both "non-discriminatory transmission service" and wholesale 
rates that are "just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or preferential."4 
Citing the importance of meeting load forecast projections, the Secretary highlights 
that "it has become necessary to standardize interconnection procedures and agreements for 
such loads, including those seeking to share a point of interconnection with new or existing 
generation facilities (hybrid facilities)." The Secretary articulates his view that the focus and 
substance of the proposed ANOPR is "intended to ensure efficient, timely, and non-
discriminatory load interconnections." In this regard, the ANOPR also includes fourteen 
proposed principles for reform.5  
Notably, the ANOPR emphasizes the proposal “is not intended in any way to 
discourage public utilities from making filings to address these and similar issues” under 
section 205 of the Federal Power Act (“FPA”)6 and seeks consideration of transition 
mechanisms, including for large load interconnections that are already being studied.7 This is 
important as it allows for proceedings and proposals currently underway to expedite and 
 
4  
ANOPR at PP 13-16. 
5  
Id. at PP 17-31. 
6  
Id. at P 32. 
7  
Id. at P 30. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
3 
 
clarify regional interconnection procedures so that they may move forward to meet pending 
and imminent large load needs, including for example, the PJM Show Cause proceeding.8 It 
would be entirely inconsistent with the intent of the ANOPR to further delay resolution of the 
Show Cause proceeding to clarify the rules applicable to large load interconnections in PJM, 
which has been awaiting Commission action based on an extensive record for over six 
months. Per the Commission’s statutes and practices, once a final rule is issued that 
establishes a specific large load interconnection process, regional markets may adopt those 
provisions or may demonstrate how their process meets or exceeds the requirements 
established by the new rule. This should allow current proceedings and projects to continue 
to move forward as the Commission deliberates these issues in the coming months. Indeed, 
it would be inconsistent for a Commission proceeding focused on “ensur[ing] the timely and 
orderly interconnection of large loads to the transmission system”9 to create further delay 
and/or increase uncertainty for such interconnections. 
 
II. 
COMMENTS 
A. Introduction 
 
As the national trade organization representing competitive power suppliers, including 
Independent Power Producers (“IPPs”), that participate in wholesale electricity markets in 
every region of the country, EPSA is directly invested in and supports the mission and 
objectives laid out in the Secretary’s ANOPR. Our members are actively working with large 
load customers to develop supply arrangements that provide reliable power innovatively and 
at the lowest cost from environmentally responsible generation facilities using a diverse mix 
 
8  
PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Notice of Institution of Section 206 Proceeding and Refund Effective 
Dates, Docket Nos. EL25-49-000, AD24-11-000, EL25-20-000 (consolidated), (issued February 21, 2025) 
(“Show Cause Proceeding”). 
9  
ANOPR at P 1. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
4 
 
of fuels and technologies. To do so, IPPs utilize competitive market mechanisms which offer 
opportunities to craft novel arrangements to meet a customer’s specific needs reliably. 
That noted, as the Secretary highlights, we are entering an era of economic 
development and growth that will require extraordinary quantities of power – even though 
current forecasts are most likely to prove inflated – and that power needs to be provided 
“efficiently, fairly, and expeditiously.”10  
Thus, as EPSA commented to the Commission almost one year ago in post-
conference comments in its co-location administrative proceeding,11 rules of the road are 
necessary to provide sufficient market certainty and the transparency needed to enable large 
loads to interconnect to the transmission system efficiently and fairly, and to be able to do so 
quickly. Developers of all stripes, ISOs/RTOs, Transmission Owners, and others all need to 
know the rules in order to connect new large load customers when they are ready to operate. 
This “speed to power” imperative presents new challenges that must be met clearly while 
ensuring new rules and policies are not unduly discriminatory to either new loads or existing 
load customers, not unduly discriminatory to either new or existing generation, and that 
wholesale rates are just and reasonable. EPSA supports the goals and direction of the 
proposed ANOPR to address those challenges in the near term, noting certain clarifications 
discussed below offered to assist in establishing a durable and defensible final rule in this 
proceeding.  
Importantly, as new rules and regulations are crafted and implemented, existing 
projects that have reached advanced interconnection milestones should be afforded legacy-
based treatment in order to rely on the framework under which their commercial arrangement 
 
10  
Secretary’s Letter at p 2. 
11  
Post-Conference Comments of the Electric Power Supply Association, Large Loads Co-Located at 
Generating Facilities Technical Conference, (December 9, 2024), Docket No. AD24-11-000. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
5 
 
has made substantial progress. Thus, this rulemaking process should not interfere with 
advanced transactions or arrangements between large load customers and power suppliers 
or further delay proceedings like the PJM Show Cause.12 In some circumstances, this may 
bode for the continued development (and approval) of regional programs, tariffs, and 
processes to facilitate new projects. Alternatively, it may be the case that arrangements can 
and should be processed pursuant to the current rules of an ISO/RTO.  
The Secretary’s Letter and the proposed ANOPR should also compel the Commission 
to complete pending proceedings, like the PJM Show Cause proceeding, which have a 
comprehensive record, are ripe for Commission action, and that align well with the ANOPR. 
In fact, further delay would be inconsistent with the intent of the ANOPR. EPSA thus urges 
the Commission to act on these matters in as timely and clearly a manner possible. To the 
extent that any of the actions directed in the PJM Show Cause proceeding require further 
review once a national rule is issued, the Commission can direct PJM to take any additional 
compliance actions necessary at that time. 
Other important considerations for any new load interconnection process include: (1) 
allowing for and supporting the ability of competitive transmission providers to participate in 
enabling the interconnection of these new projects; (2) ensuring that the process and 
prioritization for load does not impinge on the existing generation interconnection queue; and 
(3) respecting and coexisting with the core principles, objectives, and operations of 
competitive wholesale power markets. 
Structured as an ANOPR to solicit comment on the proposal’s principles and 
objectives in advance of developing specific rules and regulations, the DOE proposal sets out 
 
12  
See Principle 13 outlining that there must be a plan to implement these proposed reforms, including 
seeking input on appropriate transition plans, including the treatment of large load interconnections that are 
already being studied for interconnection. ANOPR at P 30. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
6 
 
the need for reform, explains the jurisdictional authority and legal justification for FERC to act 
pursuant to the Secretary’s direction, and provides fourteen principles to inform the 
Commission’s rulemaking procedures. EPSA offers comments herein to support the goals of 
the ANOPR and assist in the development of a functional, durable rule that enables the rapid 
interconnection of new large load customers to the grid in a non-discriminatory manner. 
B. Need for Reform 
As outlined in the ANOPR, the very recent extensive growth of large loads seeking to 
interconnect to the grid has created an inflection point relative to serving this demand in a 
manner that provides non-discriminatory access for all system customers. EPSA agrees that 
interconnection procedures and agreements for large loads require a level of standardization 
to establish certainty and transparency – both of which are sorely lacking today in the opaque 
and unfiled individual Transmission Owner processes that exacerbate confusion and delay 
regarding new load connections while furthering uncertainty by establishing load forecasts 
inflated by speculative projects. A clearer, standardized process (at least for load 
interconnections to transmission facilities as contemplated by the ANOPR) will enable 
innovative suppliers and customers to develop arrangements that can move forward to 
operation reliably and cost effectively. Looking ahead, the nation is embarking on a once-in-a-
generation infrastructure buildout requiring billions of dollars of investment. With all that at 
stake, guiding rules and provisions are needed to ensure that competitive arrangements are 
not artificially hampered or delayed, and have the regulatory certainty to progress as speedily 
as possible. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
7 
 
Further, establishing a clear, expedited glide path for large load customer 
interconnections to the transmission system13 should bring visibility to committed new 
demand, shining a light on how much of forecasted demand growth is ready and able to join 
the system. As has been highlighted in an array of papers, studies, and stakeholder 
processes,14 understanding how much of the stated load forecast growth is real, verifiable, 
and ready is yet another challenge in working through the planning and investment decisions 
made by generation developers as well as system operators. Current load forecasting 
approaches inappropriately and unrealistically force ISOs/RTOs to make commercial 
assessments based on unverifiable and opaque information provided by Transmission 
Owners and Electric Distribution Companies. While revisions to load forecasting is a topic for 
possible reform in certain ISOs/RTOs, and rightly so, much of the forecasting complexity and 
uncertainty regarding large load additions could be addressed with a transparent large load 
interconnection process. 
It is also well documented that, while new large load customers like data centers can 
be built and operational in a matter of months, the development of new reliable baseload 
generation resources is measured in years.15 Thus, as has been set out in the ANOPR, it is 
necessary to establish procedures to identify projects to ensure a “relatively unencumbered 
entry into the market” is available. And, as pointed out in President Trump’s artificial 
intelligence (“AI”) action plan, it is critical to “[r]eform power markets to align financial 
incentives with the goal of grid stability, ensuring that investment in power generation reflects 
 
13  
ANOPR at P 18. 
14  
See, e.g., Union of Concerned Scientists, Loophole Costs Customers Over $4 Billion to Connect Data 
Centers to Power Grid, Policy Brief September 2025; London Economics (for Southern Environmental Law 
Center), Uncertainty and Upward Bias Are Inherent in Data Center Electricity Demand Projections, July 2025; 
and, Duke University’s Nicholas Institute for Energy, Environment & Sustainability, Rethinking Load Growth: 
Assessing the Potential for Integration of Large Flexible Loads in US Power Systems, February 2025. 
15  
Powering a New Era of US Energy Demand, McKinsey & Company, by Adam Barth, Humayun Tai, 
and Ksenia Kaladiouk with Lawrence Heath, April 25, 2025. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
8 
 
the system’s needs.”16 Currently, generation developers and hyperscaler customers are often 
stymied by a complex labyrinth of studies, rules, and incumbent Transmission Owner 
requirements. 
Noting that wholesale markets do differ in certain ways, there may be a level of 
regional deference needed to accommodate compliance by various ISOs/RTOs. New rules 
addressing the speedy interconnection of new large loads should also accommodate and 
foster the participation of competitive transmissions providers to offer solutions and pathways 
to these innovative customers where possible. Additionally, some large load or hybrid facilities 
projects that have progressed through stages of existing interconnection processes may 
need to continue on those established paths in order to reach commercialization as 
contemplated. These issues, however, do not negate the need for a baseline set of rules to 
guide each market in its compliance with the Commission’s directives in this proceeding and 
offer the transparency needed by industry and policymakers as soon as possible. Thus, 
beginning with the ANOPR’s fourteen principles is useful and will help to establish a robust 
and compelling record supporting FERC’s resulting directives. 
C. FERC’s Jurisdiction and Legal Authority 
As an organization representing competitive suppliers, EPSA understands the 
importance of the Commission’s authority over the interconnection of generation facilities. 
Representing a critical aspect of open access and comparable transmission service, standard 
generator interconnection procedures and agreements have long been a fundamental 
element of the interstate transmission system – even allowing for a level of regional 
difference to accommodate specific market rules or design. This baseline standard process 
 
16  
Executive Office of the President of the United States, Winning the Race: America’s AI Action Plan, (July 
2025). 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
9 
 
provides the certainty to support the needed investment in both generation and 
transmission.17 As demonstrated writ large by this generally standardized approach, it is now 
equally necessary to set up a baseline approach for interconnecting large loads to the 
transmission system, granting them direct and speedy access to their designated generation 
supply, whether that supply is new generation, existing generation, or a mix of the two. 
The Secretary correctly recognizes the Commission’s jurisdiction to regulate the 
interconnection of large loads to the interstate transmission grid.18 Under the FPA, the 
Commission has exclusive jurisdiction over (1) “the transmission of electric energy in 
interstate commerce,” and (2) “the sale of electric energy at wholesale in interstate 
commerce . . . .”19  The Commission and the courts have recognized that “[i]nterconnection is 
an element of transmission service,20 and as indicated in the ANOPR, the Supreme Court 
upheld the Commission’s assertion of jurisdiction over unbundled retail transmission.21 In so 
doing, the Supreme Court rejected arguments that the Commission had intruded on areas 
reserved to the states, including arguments that “the jurisdictional line between the States 
 
17  
Standardization of Generator Interconnection Agreements & Procs., Order No. 2003, 104  ¶ FERC 
61,103, at P 1 (2003), order on reh 'g, Order No. 2003-A, 106 FERC  ¶  61,220 (2004), order on reh 'g, Order 
No. 2003-B, 109 FERC  ¶  61,287 (2004), order on reh 'g, Order No. 2003-C, 111 FERC  ¶  61,401 (2005), aff'd 
sub nom. Nat’l Ass'n of Regul. Util. Comm'rs v. FERC, 475 F.3d 1277 (D.C. Cir. 2007). 
18  
ANOPR at P 16. 
19  
16 U.S.C. § 824(b) (2018). 
20  
Tennessee Power Co., 90 FERC ¶ 61,238 at 61,761 (2000). See also, e.g., Duke Energy Progress v. 
FERC, 106 F.4th 1145, 1149 (D.C. Cir. 2024) (explaining that “[t]he transmission of electricity in interstate 
commerce is governed by the [FPA]” and that “[a]mong the transactions that FERC regulates is the connection 
of a new generation facility to physical infrastructure owned by a Grid Operator”); Pacific Gas & Elec. Co., 115 
FERC ¶ 61,193 at P 36 (“[I]nterconnection is part and parcel of transmission of electric energy in interstate 
commerce, and thus interconnection service is part and parcel of jurisdictional transmission service.”); 
Standardization of Generator Interconnection Agreements & Procs., Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103 at P 
12 (2003) (“Order No. 2003”) (“Interconnection is a critical component of open access transmission service.”), 
on reh’g, Order No. 2003-A, 106 FERC ¶ 61,220 (2004), on reh’g, Order No. 2003-B, 109 FERC ¶ 61,287 
(2004), on reh’g, Order No. 2003-C, 111 FERC ¶ 61,401 (2005), aff’d sub nom. National Ass’n of Regul. Util. 
Comm'rs v. FERC, 475 F.3d 1277 (D.C. Cir. 2007) (“NARUC”); Entergy Servs., Inc., 92 FERC ¶ 61,149 at 
61,558 (2000) (asserting exclusive jurisdiction over an interconnection agreement because “interconnection 
service is a component of jurisdictional transmission services”). 
21  
See ANOPR at P 4 (citing New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1 (2002) (“New York”)). 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
10 
 
and FERC falls between the wholesale and retail markets.”22 The Court explained that 
“[t]here is no language in the statute limiting FERC's transmission jurisdiction to the 
wholesale market, although the statute does limit FERC's sale jurisdiction to that at 
wholesale.”23 The same is true of load interconnections with the interstate transmission grid: 
the issue is whether the interconnection service is in interstate commerce, not whether that 
commerce involves a wholesale sale by an interconnecting generator or a retail purchase by 
an interconnecting large load. 
Significantly, the FPA contains no analog to the Hinshaw Amendment, whereby the fact 
that electricity is delivered solely within a state for ultimate consumption within that state 
would cause its transmission to cease to be subject to the Commission’s jurisdiction.24 As a 
result, the rule articulated in Federal Power Commission v. East Ohio Gas Company,25 which 
the Hinshaw Amendment overruled in the natural gas setting,26 continues to apply in the 
electric setting, and the Commission retains exclusive jurisdiction over the transmission of 
electricity in interstate commerce effected through the interconnection of large loads, even 
where the interconnections are related to sales “direct to consumers rather than for resale.”27  
That the states will continue to have the power to regulate these retail sales does not alter the 
jurisdictional analysis as it relates to the load interconnection service.28 
 
22  
New York, 535 U.S. at 16. See also FPC v. Florida Power & Light Co., 404 U.S. 453, 472 (1972) 
(Douglas, J., dissenting) (expressing concern that the majority opinion would result in assertion of jurisdiction 
over a “company transmitting electric energy in interstate commerce” even where there was “no claim . . . that 
wholesale selling is involved).  
23  
New York, 535 U.S. at 16. 
24  
See 15 U.S.C. § 717(c) (2018). 
25  
338 U.S. 464 (1940) (“East Ohio”). 
26  
See Public Utils. Comm’n of Cal. v. FERC, 900 F.2d 269, 292 n.4 (D.C. Cir. 1990). 
27  
East Ohio, 338 U.S. at 473. 
28  
Id. at 473-74 (“That a state commission might also have some regulatory power would not preclude 
exercise of the Commission's function.”). 

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
11 
 
To be sure, in New York, the Supreme Court not only affirmed the Commission’s 
assertion of jurisdiction over unbundled retail transmission but also the Commission’s 
decision not to assert jurisdiction over bundled retail transmission.29 But that only speaks to 
the Commission’s discretion not to order a remedy that FERC did not believe “necessary” and 
that, as the Court agreed, “raise[d] numerous difficult jurisdictional issues . . . .”30 Importantly, 
as the Court observed, the Commission “did not hold itself powerless to claim jurisdiction” 
over bundled retail transmission.31 The ANOPR contemplates similar restraint, inasmuch as it 
would have the Commission assert jurisdiction over the interconnection of large loads to the 
interstate transmission grid but continue to allow the states to exercise jurisdiction over the 
interconnection of smaller loads or the interconnection of any loads, large or small, at the 
distribution level.32   
In addition, the ANOPR also contemplates restraint by making clear that the state, not 
the Commission, would continue to have jurisdiction over any retail sales to a large load 
interconnected with the interstate transmission grid under the proposed process.33 And even 
if the FERC-prescribed large load interconnection process has some impact on retail sales, 
as the Supreme Court has held, “a FERC regulation does not run afoul of [FPA Section 
201(b)]’s proscription just because it affects – even substantially – the quantity or terms of 
such retail sales.”34 Any number of Commission actions within its sphere of regulation will 
 
29  
See New York, 535 U.S.at 25-28. 
30  
Id. at 27 (quoting Promoting Wholesale Competition Through Open Access Non-Discriminatory 
Transmission Servs. by Pub. Utils.; Recovery of Stranded Costs by Pub. Utils. & Transmitting Utils., Order No. 
888, 75 FERC ¶ 61,080, FERC Stats. &Regs. ¶ 31,036 at 31,699 (1996), on reh 'g, Order No. 888-A, 78 FERC 
¶ 61,220, FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,048, on reh’g, Order No. 888-B, 81 FERC ¶ 61,248 (1997), on reh’g, Order 
No. 888-C, 82 FERC ¶ 61,046 (1998), aff'd in relevant part sub nom. Transmission Access Poly Study Grp. v. 
FERC, 225 F.3d 667 (D.C. Cir. 2000), aff'd sub nom. New York, 535 U.S. 1. 
31  
Id. at 25. 
32  
ANOPR at P 18. 
33  
Id. at P 15 (“Even if the large load seeking to interconnect to the transmission system is an end-use 
customer, the proposal does not exert jurisdiction over any retail sales to the large load.”). 
34  
FERC v. Electric Power Supply Ass’n, 577 U.S. 260, 281 (2016) (“EPSA”). 

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
12 
 
obviously have “some effect, in either the short or the long term, on retail sales,” but “[t]hat is 
of no legal consequence.”35 
The ANOPR states that “the interconnection of large loads to the transmission system 
falls under a practice directly affecting Commission-jurisdictional wholesale electricity rates.”36  
That is clearly correct where hybrid facilities are concerned, for the same reason it is correct 
where the generation portion of the hybrid facility is interconnecting on a stand-alone basis.  
In NARUC, the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit upheld the Commission’s 
assertion of jurisdiction over generator interconnections, including interconnections with local 
distribution facilities otherwise exempt from the Commission’s jurisdiction “insofar as the 
interconnections are ‘for the purpose of making sales of electric energy for resale in interstate 
commerce.’”37 The ANOPR defines a “hybrid facility” as a large load “seeking to share a point 
of interconnection with new or existing generation facilities,” and by that definition, the 
interconnection of the hybrid facility will plainly be a practice directly affecting the 
Commission-jurisdiction wholesale rates of the interconnected or interconnecting generation 
facilities. 
Large load interconnection will also implicate the Commission’s jurisdiction over 
practices affecting wholesale rates where the large load is being served from a generation 
facility and the transaction has been structured to preserve the generation owner’s exempt 
wholesale generator (“EWG”) status. The Commission has previously accepted 
arrangements in which a marketer is interposed between a generator and an end-user in 
order to ensure that the generator’s sales are wholesale sales, consistent with the 
requirement that an EWG be “engaged . . . exclusively in the business of owning or operating 
 
35  
Id. 
36  
ANOPR at P 14 (citing EPSA, 136 S.Ct. at 764). 
37  
NARUC, 475 F.3d at 1279-80 (quoting Order No. 2003 at P 804). 

--- PAGE 13 ---
 
13 
 
or both owning and operating, all or part of one or more eligible facilities and selling electric 
energy at wholesale.”38 In such an arrangement, the sale to the large load will be at retail but 
the large load interconnection will relate directly to the EWG’s sale at wholesale and indeed, 
would not occur but for that wholesale sale. 
The ANOPR also states that “any contrary view of the proposed reforms conflicts with 
the FPA's core purposes.”39 EPSA agrees. Indeed, because, as discussed above, 
interconnection service is itself a transmission service, the large load will be interconnecting 
to obtain this limited transmission connection service even if it does not take transmission 
delivery service.40 Bringing order and uniformity to the large load interconnection process will 
advance “the FPA’s core objects” by “protect[ing] ‘against excessive prices’ and ensur[ing] 
effective transmission of electric power.”41 
D. Principles for Reform 
Noting EPSA’s support for reforms to ensure the “timely and orderly” interconnection of 
large loads to the transmission system, we offer certain clarification requests and suggestions 
on five principles below. Importantly, the common objective of the suite of principles is the 
establishment of a transparent, fair, expedited process for large load interconnection in the 
 
38  
18 C.F.R. § 366.1 (2024). See Application of O’Brien (Parlin) Cogeneration, Inc. for Determination of 
Exempt Wholesale Generator Status at 3-11, Docket No. EG96-60-000 (filed Apr. 29, 1996), granted, O’Brien 
(Parlin) Cogeneration, Inc., 75 FERC ¶ 61,326 (1996); Application for Determination of Exempt Wholesale 
Generator Status at 5 & n.8, Docket No. EG06-24-000 (filed Dec. 20, 2005), granted, Elkem Metals Co.-Alloy 
L.P., 114 FERC ¶ 62,091 (2006); Application for Determination of Exempt Wholesale Generator Status at 3, 7-8, 
Docket No. EG98-3-000 (filed Oct. 8, 1997), granted, Brooklyn Navy Yard Cogeneration Partners, L.P., 81 FERC 
¶ 62,160 (1997).  See also Notification of Self-Certification of Exempt Wholesale Generator, Docket No. EG24-
98-000 (filed Jan. 30, 2024), notice of effectiveness, Atrisco Solar LLC, Notice of Effectiveness of Exempt 
Wholesale Generator Status, Docket Nos. EG24-64-000 (Apr. 3, 2024) (unreported). 
39  
ANOPR at P 16. 
40  
See Order No. 888 at P 118 (stating that the Commission “treat[s] interconnection and delivery as 
separate aspects of transmission service”). There are various scenarios in which an interconnecting large load 
would not procure delivery service, including (but not limited to) circumstances in which (1) the large load would 
be purchasing power at the node with which it is interconnected; (2) the large load is purchasing power from a 
seller that obtains any needed transmission delivery service; or (3) the large load is directly connected with, and 
served from, a generation facility. 
41  
EPSA, 577 U.S. at 290. 

--- PAGE 14 ---
 
14 
 
defined circumstances. This objective is mission critical and must underpin any proposed 
regulations, rules, or procedures developed in this proceeding. 
a. Principle One – Applicability of the Seven-Factor Test 
The ANOPR proposes to use a highly fact-contingent test to determine what facilities 
are transmission for the purpose of effectuating this rule. This would result in substantial 
uncertainty for loads, which would have to wait for classification decisions made by self-
interested utilities to determine whether they fall into the State “local distribution” bucket or 
the Federal “transmission” bucket. Litigation would then ensue. The lengthy process would 
defeat the core purposes – speed and efficiency – which the ANOPR has in mind. Previously, 
the Commission has determined that bright-line rules, subject to being rebutted in 
proceedings, should initially classify facilities by voltage to effectuate its jurisdictional 
purposes in promulgating rules such as this one. Similarly, load sharing a point of connection 
on the transmission system with a new or existing generation facility (i.e., hybrid facilities) 
should be deemed transmission given the generator connection is already clearly deemed 
transmission, even if metering facilities or step down facilities are interposed to serve the 
load. EPSA recommends the Commission follow the same approach here. 
b. Principle Two – Proposed Large Load Threshold 
The ANOPR’s legal reasoning is not based on the size of the load but on whether the 
facility to which the load is connected is or is not a transmission facility regulable by the 
Commission. That noted, it is possible, even likely, that data centers will begin to take load 
service when smaller than 20 MW, for example, before ramping up above that figure. Thus, it 
is important that the Commission clarify that the established threshold is based on the full 
expected load, even if a large load customer ramps up to that amount in phases. 
 

--- PAGE 15 ---
 
15 
 
c. Principle Four – An Efficient Queue for Interconnection 
The current load interconnection queues lack any transparent and economically 
efficient function by which to expedite the interconnection of the greatest amount of load as 
early as possible, at least cost for themselves as well as legacy customers, and with the 
fewest reliability impacts to the system. These queues are entirely within the host 
transmission owner’s control and often are guided by unfiled transmission owner procedures. 
In addressing this problem for large load connections, we hope that FERC will be mindful to 
avoid replicating the flaws of the pre-Order No. 2023 legacy generator queue design. The 
ANOPR’s principle here could be read to imply a replication of the serial “first-in-time, first-in-
right” approach which resulted in a raft of speculative projects with queue priority bogging 
down the process while never being developed. Rather, we need a transparent, workable 
process that resolves the problems of the existing transmission owner processes which are 
not subject to open access principles. 
While it is possible that a "first-ready, first-served" cluster study process for large load 
interconnection together with financial commitments and site control requirements may 
discourage speculative large load projects, EPSA would also suggest that the Commission 
consider processes that ensure a speedy interconnection timeline while assisting in the 
identification of projects that warrant prioritization. Such approaches could include requiring 
ISOs/RTOs to employ a cluster process by locational delivery area or conduct an open 
season or auction to allocate interconnection rights to large loads based on their readiness.42 
An open season concept, for example, draws on the successful regulations of the 
Commission with respect to interstate natural gas pipelines, as well as a successful approach 
 
42  
Of note, any such mechanisms utilized by an interconnecting customer should not serve as a means to 
delay any in-flight interconnections as discussed previously. 

--- PAGE 16 ---
 
16 
 
by the Alberta Electric System Operator which rapidly enabled the interconnection of data 
centers to be built in 2027-28.43 
d. Principle Seven – Expedited Process for Curtailable Large Loads 
EPSA firmly agrees that, when a large load customer agrees to be curtailable and 
dispatchable in order to assist in system reliability and flexibility in defined circumstances, 
that load should be subject to an expedited interconnection study process. The ANOPR 
seeks comment on whether a serial interconnection study process may be reasonable. The 
existing serial process resulted in often delayed or opaque sets of studies and has been a 
key factor hampering recent projects from gaining momentum to reach commercial operation, 
as has been demonstrated in the Commission’s proceeding leading to Order No. 2023. Thus, 
Order No. 2023 established an approach that clusters studies or other innovative study 
approaches as much as possible, leading to both expedited processing and possible vetting 
among projects competing at the same or similar interconnection site to establish certainty 
and prioritization.  
Particularly when large loads are curtailable, the Commission should direct ISOs/RTOs 
to require interconnection study processes be completed in an established timeframe 
measured in months, not years.44 The intent of the ANOPR is to remove barriers to the timely 
interconnection of new large loads – this must include moving past the dysfunction and delay 
of the existing serial transmission owner study processes. Thus, the Commission should 
direct ISOs/RTOs to complete studies within a specific time – bundled on a concurrent 
 
43  
Alberta Electric System Operator (”AESO”), Large Load Integration Phase I:  Interim Connection Limit 
and Assignment (June 4, 2025), https://aesoengage.aeso.ca/48469/widgets/204062/documents/153825. 
44  
See e.g., Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission, Tentative Order: Interconnection and Tariffs for Large 
Load Customers, Docket M-2025-3054271, (November 6, 2025). “Utilities should have some flexibility for 
determining study timelines, ensuring high-quality results; however, we encourage utilities to give additional 
transparency to customers looking to interconnect (ex. periodic updates, average response times, queue 
position, expected timelines, etc.) and tentatively find that six months is a reasonable amount to maximum time 
to complete interconnection studies unless there are exigent circumstances,” p. 25. 

--- PAGE 17 ---
 
17 
 
timeline with any transmission owner studies to the extent possible. This will lead to faster 
study completion as well as more transparent and efficient transmission upgrade identification 
– see Principle Three,45 which EPSA supports.  
This principle appropriately acknowledges and supports the ability of hybrid 
configurations to determine and commit to operating in a manner that supports system 
reliability – through load curtailment or providing generation service during specific system 
conditions, for instance. These operational commitments could reduce the need for network 
upgrades for both the generation and load, and thus support prioritizing these projects for 
interconnection pursuant to open access principles.46   
The Commission should consider an expedited interconnection approach that may be 
fashioned similarly to recent generation interconnection expedited procedures such as the 
RRI approach in PJM.47 Additionally, any market-based process to identify projects to be 
studied in tandem could also do the following: (1) vet projects for viability before they take up 
resources utilized for the cluster study process, or (2) identify a “corridor” that could support 
multiple new load projects with shared network upgrades. 
e. Principle Ten – SSR/RMR Studies for Large Loads 
As stated, this principle presents some confusion regarding its intent and 
implementation. EPSA rejects the underlying premise that existing generation that is moved 
 
45  
ANOPR at P 20. 
46  
See e.g., Improvements to Generator Interconnection Procedures and Agreement, Order No. 2023, 184 
FERC ¶ 61,054 (2023), PP 1509-1510, “We find that by more accurately reflecting the technical capabilities of 
electric storage resources in interconnection studies through the use of appropriate operating assumptions, this 
reform ensures the reliable interconnection of new electric storage resources without overestimating their impact 
on the transmission system, thereby ensuring just and reasonable rates by avoiding excessive and unnecessary 
network upgrades that may hinder the timely development of new generating facilities that stifles competition in 
the wholesale market. We also find that reflecting the technical capabilities of electric storage resources through 
the use of appropriate operating assumptions in interconnection studies reduces unduly discriminatory or 
preferential barriers to the interconnection of electric storage resources.” 
47  
PJM Inside Lines, Reliability Resource Initiative Draws 94 Applications, March 21, 2025. 

--- PAGE 18 ---
 
18 
 
behind the meter to serve data center load is akin to a partial suspension or otherwise 
warrants RMR/SSR type analysis for deactivating resources. Such resources could still be 
serving the grid, depending on whether and how the load is connected, and the nature of the 
flexibility of the load. Any analysis of such arrangements should not assess resource 
adequacy issues which even fall outside the scope of ISO/RTO deactivation analyses. 
Any reliability assessment for co-located or hybrid arrangements must be limited to 
whether and how the proposed new load can be reliably and safely interconnected to the 
grid. As an example, PJM’s Necessary Study process engages in such an assessment. To 
introduce resource adequacy as a consideration in determining whether and at what cost to 
interconnect new large load would necessarily discriminate against that new load and existing 
generators. Under fundamental open access principles, there can be no such differentiated 
treatment between new and existing load or between new and existing generation. 
 
 

--- PAGE 19 ---
 
19 
 
 
III. 
CONCLUSION 
 
EPSA respectfully requests that the Commission move forward expeditiously with 
proposed reforms to ease the process for large load interconnection to the transmission 
system, as highlighted above. EPSA offers suggestions herein for clarification and refinement 
of certain principles in an effort to assist in the Commission’s development of durable, 
reasonable, and transparent interconnection procedures that support the speed to power 
needs facing our country today and in the coming years. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N. E. Bagot 
 
 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
Nancy Bagot, Senior Vice President 
 
 
 
 
 
Electric Power Supply Association 
 
 
 
 
 
1401 New York Avenue, NW, Suite 950 
 
 
 
 
 
Washington, DC 20005 
 
 
 
 
 
(202) 628-8200 
 
 
 
 
 
NancyB@epsa.org 
 
 
 
Dated: November 21, 2025 
