--- PAGE 1 ---
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate 
Transmission System 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
 
 
 
 
COMMENTS OF  
SOUTHERN MARYLAND ELECTRIC COOPERATIVE, INC. 
 
 
The Southern Maryland Electric Cooperative, Inc. (“SMECO”) respectfully submits the 
following comments in response to the Commission’s Notice Inviting Comments and the Notice 
Granting Extension of Time granted on November 7, 2025 regarding the U.S. Secretary of 
Energy’s October 23, 2025 proposed Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) 1   to 
“ensure the timely and orderly interconnection of large loads to the transmission system”2 for 
consideration and final action by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“Commission”).   
 
I. 
SMECO’s Interest in the Proceeding 
 
SMECO is a Maryland electric cooperative and non-profit membership corporation, 
incorporated under the Electric Cooperative Act of Maryland. SMECO is a PJM Transmission 
owner and a PJM load serving entity (“LSE”) in the Pepco Transmission zone. SMECO is a 
load-serving entity within the PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (“PJM”) RTO, a member of PJM, 
and a PJM Transmission Owner.  
SMECO appreciates the opportunity to comment on the important issues addressed by the 
proposed ANOPR. SMECO respectfully submits that a final rule to establish standardized, non-
discriminatory procedures for "orderly" interconnections of large new loads without 
 
1The 
ANOPR 
can 
be 
found 
at 
https://www.energy.gov/sites/default/files/2025-
10/403%20Large%20Loads%20Letter.pdf and is posted on the Commission’s eLibrary in the above-referenced 
Docket. 
2 ANOPR at P 1.  

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
 
compromising reliability is needed at the present time. Specifically, with each passing PJM 
capacity market auction, the quantity of new loads that PJM is attempting to serve in its capacity 
market is ever increasing. For example, in the Base Residual Auction (“BRA”) for the PJM 
2027/2028 Delivery Year (“DY”) that opens on December 4, 2025, the quantity of load that PJM 
has to meet to adhere to its 1-day in 10 reliability standard increased by 6,295 MW (UCAP) over 
the preceding BRA for the 26/27 DY.3   
II. 
Summary  
 
At the outset, SMECO supports the comments of its trade association, the National Rural 
Electric Cooperative Association (“NRECA”). SMECO’s comments relate to the PJM market 
and the regional differences that NRECA has expressed should be addressed in any final 
rulemaking.  
To that end, SMECO focuses on the following ANOPR topics in which, in SMECO’s 
view, there is a particularly urgent PJM nexus: 
• Expedited  Interconnection Studies for Dispatchable Large Loads:  SMECO urges 
the Commission, in any final rule, to ensure that PJM’s ability to control such eligible 
load facilities through curtailment and/or dispatch, through, for example PJM Price 
Responsive Demand and Demand response products, to the extent those or similar 
products is permitted at all to serve new large loads, is adequate for PJM to integrate the 
facility into both operations and system planning. SMECO also comments on the studies 
timeline and integration with PJM’s capacity market auctions in its comments below.  
• Load and Hybrid Facilities Network Upgrade Cost Allocation: As a general 
proposition, based on cost causation principles, SMECO supports a federal construct and 
framework in the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff that would directly assign costs 
associated with upgrades to the electric transmission system caused by a large load 
facility directly to the large load facility (or group of large load facilities) assigned 
through the interconnection studies. A framework that would directly assign costs 
associated with upgrades to the electric transmission system caused by a large load 
facility – akin to a customer Contribution in Aid of Construction (“CIAC”) at the 
wholesale level or Federal CIAC – would also entail the new large load paying network 
 
3 See Table 1: https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/markets-ops/rpm/rpm-auction-info/2027-2028/2027-2028-
planning-period-parameters-for-base-residual-auction-pdf.pdf  

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
 
service thru the applicable network service rate once access to the grid is achieved by 
paying for the appurtenant necessary upgrade. 
• RMR studies for Hybrid (co-located load) arrangements: SMECO supports a final 
rule that would consider expanding the reliability studies that PJM performs pursuant to 
PJM Tariff, Part V to an existing generating facility that seeks to enter a partial 
suspension, as described in the ANOPR, to serve any new load authorized to take service 
in a co-located or hybrid configuration (to the extent such arrangements are permitted in 
the first instance). 
 
 
III. 
Comments 
 
A. 
ANOPR Principle 7: Expedited Interconnection Studies for Large Loads that 
Agree to be Dispatchable. 
The ANOPR’s seventh principle is that:  “…the interconnection study of large loads that 
agree to be curtailable and hybrid facilities that agree to be curtailable and dispatchable should 
be expedited. The system operator's ability to control such facilities through curtailment and/or 
dispatch must be sufficient for the system operator to integrate the facility into both operations 
and system planning. This ensures the timely and orderly addition of large loads to the 
transmission system in a safe, reliable, and non-discriminatory manner. We seek comment on 
whether this should be accomplished through a serial interconnection study process or by some 
other means. We also seek comment on appropriate deadlines for such an expedited study 
process, including whether such studies can be completed in 60 days.”4 
SMECO’s comments on this ANOPR principle focus on the tariff products that would 
meet this type of dispatchable or curtailable load service. In the PJM market the only current 
tariffed products such for “dispatchable” or curtailable load service is PJM Price Responsive 
Demand (“PRD”) and Demand response (“DR”) products.5  But such loads need to be ‘cleared’ 
 
4 Id. at P 24. 
5 https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/about-pjm/newsroom/fact-sheets/price-responsive-demand.pdf  

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
 
in a PJM capacity market auction for a forward DY; that timing alone, while it may may permit 
the completion of studies in 60 days, may push load service until the applicable DY.  
SMECO recently proposed enhancements to PJM’s PRD service as part of the PJM Large 
Load Additions (“LLA”) Critical Issue Fast Path (“CIFP”) stakeholder process initiative.6 The 
SMECO PRD enhancements that PJM members considered on November 19, 2025 in the LLA 
CIFP are eminently consistent with the spirit of ANOPR Principle 7.  
Thus, SMECO urges the Commission, in any final rule, to ensure that, if curtailable or 
dispatchable interconnections for large load are to be permitted at all, that PJM’s ability to 
control such eligible load facilities through curtailment and/or dispatch is adequate for PJM to 
integrate the facility into both operations and system planning. 
 
B. 
ANOPR Principle 8: Load and Hybrid Facilities Network Upgrade Cost 
Allocation. 
The ANOPR’s eighth principle is that “load and hybrid facilities should be responsible 
for 100% of the network upgrades that they are assigned through the interconnection studies.”7  
Indeed, as the ANOPR states at paragraph 16: “Any large load that seeks to interconnect to the 
transmission system does so to obtain transmission service and the appurtenant benefits of 
such.”8 
As a general proposition, SMECO supports a federal construct and framework in the PJM 
Open Access Transmission Tariff (the “PJM Tariff”) that would directly assign costs associated 
 
6 https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/committees-groups/cifp-lla/2025/20251119/20251119-item-02l---smeco-
prd-package---executive-summary.pdf.  SMECO’s PRD package received 2.333 out of a 5 sector-weighted votes, 
the highest vote tally of the PJM CIFP LLA packages. See voting report: https://www.pjm.com/-
/media/DotCom/committees-groups/committees/mc/2025/20251119/20251119-mc-voting-results---agenda-item-3l--
-smeco-package.pdf  
7 ANOPR at P 25. 
8 Id. at P 16. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
 
with upgrades to the electric transmission system caused by a large load facility directly to the 
large load facility (or group of large load facilities) assigned through the interconnection studies.  
Support for a framework in the PJM Tariff that would directly assign costs associated 
with upgrades to the electric transmission system caused by a large load facility – akin to a 
customer Contribution in Aid of Construction (“CIAC”) at the wholesale level or Federal CIAC 
– would also entail the new large load paying network service thru the applicable network 
service rate once access to the grid is achieved by paying for the appurtenant necessary upgrade. 
Such a proposition is also consistent with legislation enacted in Maryland in 2025, which 
states that “[i]t is the intent of the General Assembly that residential retail electric customers in 
the State should not bear the financial risks associated with large load customers interconnecting 
to the electric system serving the State.” 9  
Principle 8 is essential to keep rates affordable to other consumers (especially residential 
customers, many of whom are currently struggling to afford their electric service) and to protect 
them from cost shifting. PJM transmission costs already occupy a higher share of total wholesale 
costs than RPM capacity costs10, and such costs stand to increase as the considerable large loads 
contemplated for the PJM region require PJM grid expansion.11 
SMECO’s support for a framework in the PJM Tariff that would directly assign costs 
associated with upgrades to the electric transmission system caused by a large load facility 
directly to the large load facility is consistent with long-standing cost-causation ratemaking 
 
9 See: Md. Ann. Code, Public Utilities Art. § 4-212(b).  
10 See: PJM IMM Presentation to PJM Members Committee, November 20, 2025: https://www.pjm.com/-
/media/DotCom/committees-groups/committees/mc/2025/20251120/20251120-item-03---market-monitoring-report-
--presentation.pdf  
11 See: PJM’s 2025 Regional Transmission Expansion Plan Window 1, November 4, 2025 Transmission Expansion 
Advisory Committee meeting: https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/committees-
groups/committees/teac/2025/20251104/20251104-item-14---reliability-analysis-update.pdf.  The 2025 RTEP 
Window 1 solution package will depend on the proposals selected, with a range of costs expected to be between $8-
$10 billion, and annual revenue requirement cost impact to PJM load of over $1 Billion annually. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
 
principles; as NRECA’s initial comments note, Commission and judicial precedent requires that 
transmission costs be allocated in a manner “at least roughly commensurate with” the benefits 
derived from the facilities.12   
 
C. 
ANOPR Principle 10: RMR Studies for Load Co-Location with an Existing 
Generator 
The tenth ANOPR principle is that “an existing generating facility that seeks to enter a 
partial suspension to serve a new load at the same location must go through a system support 
resource (“SSR”)/reliability must run (“RMR”)-type study.”13 
As NRECA notes in its comments, regional flexibility in implementing such 
requirements will be necessary. To that end, a concern in the PJM region is the impact that large 
load facilities that enter the market in a co-located or, to use ANOPR terminology, a “hybrid” 
configuration - will have on the power markets – specifically, dilution of available generation 
resources (supply), which will result in higher power prices – and potentially degraded resource 
adequacy for PJM load and SMECO’s customer-members as new loads integrate without 
adequate new supply.   
Thus, SMECO appreciates the importance of ANOPR Principle 10 and urges the 
Commission to adopt a final rule to ensure that local reliability is not negatively impacted by 
hybrid/co-location arrangements, if such arrangements are to be permitted in the first instance at 
all. 
As background, section 113 of Part V the PJM Tariff provides that when a generation 
owner seeks to deactivate a generating unit, the generation owner must provide notice of such 
proposed deactivation, including the desired deactivation date. With a notice of deactivation, 
 
12 Ill. Com. Comm’n v. FERC, 576 F.3d 470, 477 (7th Cir. 2009). 
13 ANOPR at P 27. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
 
PJM reviews the reliability impact, to see if that deactivation of the generating unit would cause 
reliability concerns. Along with other sections of Part V of the PJM tariff, these provisions are 
known as “Tariff Part V reliability service,” a/k/a RMR service that the ANOPR describes at 
Paragraph 27.  
SMECO supports a final rule that would consider expanding the reliability studies that 
PJM performs pursuant to PJM Tariff, Part V to an existing generating facility that seeks to enter 
a partial suspension, as described in the ANOPR, to serve any new load authorized to take 
service in a co-located or hybrid configuration. 
 
 
IV. 
Conclusion 
 
For the foregoing reasons, SMECO respectfully requests that the Commission consider 
its comments in connection with a final rule or further guidance from the Commission in this 
proceeding. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Southern Maryland Electric Cooperative, Inc. 
 
            /s/                                          
Damon L. Krieger 
Group Vice President, Legal, Strategy, and 
Sustainability, and Deputy General Counsel 
Southern Maryland Electric Cooperative, Inc. 
15035 Burnt Store Road 
P.O. Box 1937 
Hughesville, MD  20637-1937 
Tel: 301.274.4323  
Damon.Krieger@SMECO.coop 
 
Dated:  November 21, 2025 

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
 
I hereby certify that I have this day served a copy of the foregoing document upon each 
party on the official service list compiled by the Secretary of the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission in this proceeding. 
 
 
 
 
Dated: November 21, 2025. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            /s/             
John S. Rohrbach 
 
 
 
