--- PAGE 1 ---
 
KATHY HOCHUL 
Governor 
 
RORY M. CHRISTIAN 
Chair 
 
 
 
Three Empire State Plaza, Albany, NY  12223-1350  |  www.dps.ny.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
November 21, 2025 
 
SENT VIA ELECTRONIC FILING 
Debbie-Anne A. Reese, Secretary 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
888 First Street, N.E. 
Washington, D.C. 20426 
 
Re:  Docket No. RM26-4-000 – Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate 
Transmission System  
 
 
Dear Secretary Reese, 
 
Attached, for filing in the above-referenced proceeding, please find the Comments of the 
New York State Public Service Commission. Please contact me at (518) 473-8178 or 
david.drexler@dps.ny.gov with any questions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
JOHN J. SIPOS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  General Counsel & Solicitor 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  s/ David G. Drexler 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DAVID G. DREXLER 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Deputy General Counsel

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
BEFORE THE  
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate 
 
)      
    Docket No. RM26-4-000 
  Transmission System  
 
 
 
)             
 
 
COMMENTS OF THE NEW YORK STATE  
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION  
 
INTRODUCTION 
On October 27, 2025, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC or Commission) 
issued a Notice Inviting Comments (Notice) on a proposed advance notice of proposed rulemaking 
(Proposed ANOPR) released by the Secretary of Energy (Secretary).  The Proposed ANOPR asks 
the Commission to exert jurisdiction over the interconnection of large loads to the transmission 
system (i.e., loads greater than 20 megawatts (MW)).  The Secretary notes that, historically, the 
Commission has “not exerted jurisdiction over load interconnections.”1  According to the 
Secretary, this unprecedented expansion of federal jurisdiction is warranted based on “current and 
expected growth of large loads seeking to interconnect to the transmission system, and to provide 
open access and non-discriminatory access to the transmission system ….”2  The Proposed 
ANOPR claims that the Commission’s jurisdiction extends to the interconnection of large loads 
and sets forth principles to inform the Commission’s rulemaking procedures.  The Secretary 
requests that the Commission expedite this rulemaking and take “final action (no later than April 
30, 2026).”3       
 
1  Proposed ANOPR Transmittal Letter from the Secretary (dated October 23, 2025), p. 1. 
(Transmittal Letter). 
2  Proposed ANOPR, ¶12. 
3  Transmittal Letter, p. 1. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
 
 
-2- 
 
 
In accordance with the Commission’s Notice Granting Extension of Time, issued on 
November 7, 2025, the New York State Public Service Commission (NYSPSC) hereby submits its 
comments on the Proposed ANOPR.  The NYSPSC acknowledges the Commission’s solicitation 
of comments on the Proposed ANOPR and welcomes the opportunity to engage in an open 
discussion on this matter, which the Secretary describes as an “urgent issue that requires prompt 
attention.”4  As discussed below in further detail, the NYSPSC has significant concerns with the 
scope of the Proposed ANOPR, which would intrude on matters reserved to the states under the 
Federal Power Act (FPA), namely service to end-use/retail customers.5  The NYSPSC currently 
regulates such retail sales, including the interconnections necessary to serve retail customers.  
While the significant number of requests to interconnect large loads, including AI centers, is a 
recent occurrence, New York already has the necessary procedures in place to make sure these 
interconnections do not compromise reliability or resource adequacy.  For example, the New York 
Independent System Operator, Inc. (NYISO) has tariff provisions in place that address the 
interconnection of large loads to determine if connecting such end-use customers would create any 
reliability impacts on the transmission system.6  If the NYISO concludes that the interconnection 
would not impact system reliability or adversely affect the New York State power system, the 
customer may pursue an interconnection with the local transmission and distribution (T&D) utility 
pursuant to tariffs overseen and approved by the NYSPSC.  The Proposed ANOPR raises potential 
 
4  Transmittal Letter, p. 1.  
5  The views expressed herein are not intended to represent those of any individual member of 
the NYSPSC.  Pursuant to Section 12 of the New York Public Service Law, N.Y. Pub. Serv. 
L. §12, the NYSPSC Chair is authorized to direct this filing on behalf of the NYSPSC. 
6  NYISO OATT §§3.9 and 4.5.8. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
 
 
-3- 
 
 
implications for the reliability of the electric system and the adequacy of generation resources by 
usurping state jurisdiction over these matters and presumably forcing the interconnection of large, 
end-use customers in order to usher in what the Secretary describes as “a new era of American 
prosperity.”7   
As a threshold matter, it is unclear that a need even exists for the proposed rulemaking, as 
the proposed ANPOR does not present any evidence to conclude that existing federal or state tariffs 
are unjust and unreasonable or are being administered in a discriminatory manner.  In fact, the 
Proposed ANOPR’s identified impetus suggests a need to take a more thoughtful and deliberative 
approach to these interconnections.  As such, the NYSPSC takes issue with the expedited schedule 
where the Secretary seeks final action by April 30, 2026, since such a schedule would leave little 
doubt that this rulemaking is a fait accompli, leaving insufficient time for the Commission to 
develop a complete and accurate record, meaningfully consider the comments received, and make 
a well-informed decision.  Given these issues, the Commission should pause the Proposed ANOPR 
rulemaking proceeding and work with stakeholders to identify if there are other efforts that should 
be pursued, particularly those within the Commission’s jurisdiction.  For instance, the NYISO is 
already addressing potential improvements to its large load interconnection processes in a manner 
that respects the current jurisdictional boundaries.  There may also be an opportunity for the 
NYSPSC to update the T&D utility tariffs to reflect the unique nature of large load 
interconnections.  We urge the Commission to take a cooperative approach with the states to 
 
7  Transmittal Letter, p. 1. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
 
 
-4- 
 
 
identify what additional steps are needed at both the federal and state level to ensure the “timely, 
orderly, and non-discriminatory” interconnection of large loads.8     
  
DISCUSSION 
I. 
The Proposed ANOPR Fails to Identify an Adequate Basis Requiring Reform  
The Proposed ANOPR deems the proposed reforms needed to “ensure the timely and 
orderly interconnection of large loads to the transmission system,” and notes that “increasing 
quantities of large commercial and industrial load, most notably data centers, are connecting 
rapidly to the transmission system.”9  According to the Proposed ANOPR, the North American 
Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) has found that “the size and speed with which data centers 
can be connected to the grid present unique challenges for demand forecasting and system 
planning.”10  This information does not suggest that an urgent need exists for the Commission to 
facilitate additional interconnections to the transmission system.  In fact, it suggests the opposite 
– a need to ensure that the current “rapid” pace of interconnections is carefully analyzed to ensure 
large loads do not adversely impact reliability or the electric system at large.   
Notably absent from the Proposed ANOPR is any evidence that utilities across the nation, 
or within a particular region, have unduly delayed or burdened the interconnection of large loads, 
leading to inefficient, untimely, or discriminatory load interconnections.  Before taking the 
extraordinary step of exerting jurisdiction over matters that the FPA reserves to the states, it is 
 
8  Id.  
9  Proposed ANOPR, ¶1. 
10  Id. 
 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
 
 
-5- 
 
 
incumbent on the Commission to demonstrate that an adequate basis exists warranting such 
unprecedented reform.  In the absence of such evidence, the Commission should refrain from 
taking further action, as contemplated in the Proposed ANOPR. 
       
II. 
The Proposed ANOPR Would Intrude on Jurisdictional Matters Regulated 
by The States 
Assuming evidence exists and can be demonstrated to support a need for reform, the 
Commission must ensure that its actions fall within its jurisdiction and do not intrude on state-
jurisdictional matters.  Even the most egregious of examples would not support a significant 
expansion of federal jurisdiction into matters already regulated and reserved to the states under the 
FPA.   
The Proposed ANOPR claims at least four legal justifications.  The first analogizes large 
load interconnections to generator interconnections and suggests they are a “‘critical component 
of open access transmission service’ that require minimum terms and conditions to ensure non-
discriminatory transmission service.”11  The second asserts such interconnections are a “practice 
directly affecting Commission-jurisdictional wholesale electricity rates.”12  The third maintains 
that FERC’s assertion of jurisdiction over the interconnection of large loads to the transmission 
system would not cover retail sales to the large load and therefore “not impinge on States’ authority 
over retail electricity sales” or state authority covering the expansion and siting of generation 
facilities under the FPA.13 Finally, the fourth proffered justification contends that FERC’s 
 
11  Proposed ANOPR, ¶13. 
12  Proposed ANOPR, ¶14. 
13  Proposed ANOPR, ¶15. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
 
 
-6- 
 
 
jurisdiction over the transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce, including wholesale 
sales in interstate commerce, and all facilities for such transmission or sale of electric energy, 
covers “any large load that seeks to interconnect to the transmission system … to obtain 
transmission service and the appurtenant benefits of such.”14         
Each of these legal justifications is flawed in that they fail to acknowledge that the 
interconnection of the large load is being done for the purpose of making a retail, end-use 
purchase of electricity that is subject to state jurisdiction.  Fundamentally, the interconnection of 
the load and the ensuing retail service are inextricably linked.  Unlike a generator 
interconnection, which is for the purpose of selling its output and making wholesale sales in 
interstate commerce utilizing the transmission system, a large load is not interconnecting to 
obtain wholesale “transmission service” or to make wholesale energy transactions, but rather for 
the end-use/retail consumption of energy.  FERC cannot establish jurisdiction by divorcing the 
interconnection of a retail customer from the retail service, even if the interconnection is to a 
transmission facility.  In the case of a large load interconnecting to the transmission system, that 
portion of the system can also be viewed as a facility “used in local distribution or only for the 
transmission of electric energy in intrastate commerce, or … for the transmission of electric 
energy consumed wholly by the transmitter,” which are all exceptions to FERC’s jurisdiction 
under the FPA and are therefore reserved to the states.15  In sum, the Proposed ANOPR reflects 
an attempt to expand federal jurisdiction and an intrusion on the states’ historic retail regulatory 
 
14  Proposed ANOPR, ¶16. 
15  FPA §201(b)(1). 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
 
 
-7- 
 
 
authority under the Federal Power Act, and would unnecessarily introduce potential confusion, 
unintended customer consequences, and legal uncertainty where none currently exists.    
III. 
Instead of Pursuing the ANOPR, the Commission Should Establish a 
Collaborative Approach with Stakeholders that Ensures Large Load 
Interconnections Do Not Jeopardize Reliability, Resource Adequacy, and 
Energy Affordability  
Given the jurisdictional issues with the Proposed ANOPR, the NYSPSC encourages the 
Commission to, instead, work collaboratively with stakeholders to identify other efforts that should 
be pursued to address the interconnection of large loads.  As noted above, the NYISO is 
undertaking a review with its stakeholders to address potential improvements to its large load 
interconnection processes.  This could include analysis of the impact a large load interconnection 
may have on resource adequacy, which is also a matter reserved to the states under the FPA.  Where 
a resource adequacy issue is identified, the states should be engaged in what types and quantities 
of resources are needed to meet the needs of retail consumers.   
Opportunities should also be identified for improvements to state-jurisdictional utility 
tariffs, which could complement the Commission’s efforts at the federal level.  For instance, the 
NYSPSC could undertake a process to consider updating the T&D utility tariffs, recognizing the 
nature of large load interconnections and ensuring they do not jeopardize reliability or impose 
unjust and unreasonable costs upon other retail consumers.  While current interconnection 
processes in New York require large loads to pay for the cost of their interconnection and related 
transmission upgrades, the operation of large loads may impose other costs not reflected in the 
interconnection process.  For example, these large loads will require significant amounts of 
generation and their appearance on the electric grid will add to the need for more generation to 
meet statewide electric demand needs and thereby raise the costs for all customers.  These impacts 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
 
 
-8- 
 
 
must be closely evaluated to ensure there are no adverse reliability or undue financial burdens from 
the interconnection of large loads.  Given the NYPSC’s regulatory oversight of the T&D utilities, 
the NYPSC is in the best position to identify these costs and allocate them appropriately.  We 
therefore urge the Commission to undertake a cooperative approach with the states and other 
stakeholders.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
As discussed herein, the Commission should pause the approach contemplated in the 
Proposed ANOPR and establish a collaborative approach with stakeholders.  This approach should 
ensure that the Commission does not intrude on state-jurisdictional matters, while engaging with 
state utility commissions on the need to interconnect large loads in a reliable manner that does not 
compromise resource adequacy.   
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 s/ John J. Sipos  
JOHN J. SIPOS  
  General Counsel and Solicitor 
New York State Public Service Commission 
 
 s/ David G. Drexler 
DAVID G. DREXLER 
  Deputy General Counsel 
Three Empire State Plaza 
Albany, NY 12223-1350  
(518) 473-8178 
david.drexler@dps.ny.gov 
 
Dated:  November 21, 2025 
 
 Albany, New York 
