--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
) 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Interstate Transmission System 
) 
 
 
REPLY COMMENTS OF ONCOR ELECTRIC DELIVERY COMPANY LLC 
 
The initial comments in the-above captioned docket offered a variety of 
perspectives on the substance of the large load interconnection reforms proposed in the 
Secretary of Energy’s advance notice of proposed rulemaking (“ANOPR”) and the 
authority of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC” or the “Commission”) 
under sections 201, 205, and 206 of the Federal Power Act (“FPA”) to implement those 
proposals.  As Oncor Electric Delivery Company LLC (“Oncor”) explained in its initial 
comments, Oncor is an electric transmission and distribution utility that operates solely 
within Texas and is not a “public utility” under FPA section 201(e) subject to plenary 
FERC jurisdiction.1  Oncor therefore takes no position at this time on the merits of the 
proposed reforms or the Commission’s authority under FPA sections 201, 205, or 206.   
However, Oncor urges the Commission to reject the invitations from certain 
commenters to use this proceeding as a vehicle for unprecedented assertions of authority 
over the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, Inc. (“ERCOT”) and its members.  The two 
commenters advancing this idea offered no legal or policy rationale for such a dramatic 
departure from the plain meaning of the relevant FPA provisions and established precedent.  
 
1  Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission Sys., Docket No. RM26-
4-000, Comments of Oncor Electric Delivery Company LLC at 1 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) 
(“Oncor Initial Comments”). 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
2 
 
FERC instead should ensure that any rule it issues in this proceeding recognizes ERCOT’s 
independence, including by carefully defining key terms. 
In keeping with the ANOPR’s framing and legal arguments, most commenters 
presumed that any large load interconnection reforms the Commission may adopt in this 
proceeding would be based on the Commission’s authority over public utilities under FPA 
sections 201, 205, and 206.  As Oncor explained in its initial comments, any rule that relies 
on the Commission’s authority over transmission and wholesale sales of electric energy in 
interstate commerce by public utilities under FPA sections 201, 205, and 206 should not 
apply to ERCOT or market participants operating solely within ERCOT that are not “public 
utilities” under FPA section 201(e) (“ERCOT Entities”).2 
However, two commenters suggested that federal large load interconnection 
reforms should apply more broadly to reach ERCOT.  Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (“Chevron”) 
“recommended that the Commission invoke its authority under section 215 of the FPA to 
‘create a separate co-located load interconnection process to expeditiously study and 
manage the coordinated interconnection of large loads co-located with generation 
facilities.’”3  Chevron argued that “[t]he breadth of the Commission’s jurisdiction under 
section 215 could be used to reinforce the legal basis of actions that the Commission may 
take in this proceeding,” flagging that the Commission’s reliability jurisdiction under 
section 215 “includes otherwise non-jurisdictional entities such as entities in the Electric 
 
2  Id. at 2-8. 
3  Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission Sys., Docket No. RM26-
4-000, Comments of Chevron U.S.A., Inc. at 9 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“Chevron Initial 
Comments”) (quoting PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Docket Nos. EL25-49-001 et al., 
Comments of Chevron U.S.A. Inc. at 4-5 (filed Apr. 23, 2025)). 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
3 
 
Reliability Council of Texas, federal agencies, municipals, and rural cooperatives.”4  
Additionally, the Texas Blockchain Council asked the Department of Energy (“DOE”) to 
“[e]ncourage FERC-jurisdictional [Independent System Operators and Regional 
Transmission Organizations] as well as ERCOT to establish a uniform, non-firm 
interconnection category for qualifying flexible loads.”5  The Texas Blockchain Council 
also highlighted the Southwest Power Pool’s recently proposed High Impact Large Load 
framework, arguing that it “enables ‘fast-track’ interconnection for large loads that agree 
to curtail when needed to preserve reliability” and contending that “Texas and ERCOT 
face similar pressures and would benefit greatly from a standardized pathway like this.”6 
Neither of these comments offer any legal justification for the Commission or DOE 
to impose new large load interconnection processes on ERCOT or ERCOT Entities.  The 
Texas Blockchain Council offers no statutory basis whatsoever for its requests regarding 
ERCOT.  While Chevron is more specific in asking FERC to invoke its FPA section 215 
reliability authority, Chevron provides no explanation for how that section could lawfully 
be used to impose a new co-located load interconnection process on entities—like ERCOT 
and ERCOT Entities—that are not “public utilities” subject to plenary FERC jurisdiction 
with respect to transmission and wholesale sales of electric energy in interstate commerce.   
Nor does Chevron grapple with the express limits of section 215 as they relate to large load 
interconnection policies.7   
 
4  Id. at 9 & n.29 (emphasis added). 
5  Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission Sys., Docket No. RM26-
4-000, Comments of Stephen Graddy at 2 (filed Nov. 10, 2025) (filed on behalf of the 
Texas Blockchain Council). 
6  Id. at 1. 
7  See Oncor Initial Comments at 12 & n.35. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
4 
 
Indeed, the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (“NERC”) made clear 
in its initial comments in this proceeding that the scope of federal reliability authority under 
FPA section 215 “statutorily extends to Reliability Standards that provide for the reliable 
operation of the [bulk-power system] and is distinguished from the Commission’s 
jurisdiction regarding the transmission and sale of electric energy.”8  As Oncor explained 
in its initial comments, Oncor believes there may be value in NERC and FERC exercising 
their authority under FPA section 215 to address the impact of large loads on the reliable 
operation of the bulk-power system, including potentially through new registration 
categories or new or modified reliability standards.9  However, FERC’s authority over 
jurisdictional public utilities—not its section 215 authority—must be the foundation for 
any reforms FERC adopts regarding large load interconnection processes based on the 
justness and reasonableness of transmission service and wholesale sales of electric energy 
in interstate commerce.   
Accordingly, FERC should reject Chevron’s request that it “invoke its authority 
under section 215” to “reinforce the legal basis of actions that the Commission may take 
in this proceeding.”10  Doing so would only cause confusion about the scope of the reforms 
and raise unnecessary legal challenges.  Instead, as both Oncor and the National Rural 
Electric Cooperative Association flagged in their initial comments, the Commission should 
 
8  Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission Sys., Docket No. RM26-
4-000, Comments of the North American Electric Reliability Corporation in Response to 
Notice Inviting Comments at 2 (filed Nov. 21, 2025); see id. at 8 (emphasizing that 
“NERC’s reliability authority under section 215 is distinct from Commission jurisdiction 
on the sale and transmission of electric energy under Federal Power Act section 
201(b)(1)”). 
9  Oncor Initial Comments at 12. 
10  Chevron Initial Comments at 9. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
5 
 
carefully define key terms (including “transmission system”) and avoid unnecessary 
references to provisions like section 215 that apply to entities that are not jurisdictional 
“public utilities.”11 
In addition to the lack of a legal basis, neither Chevron nor the Texas Blockchain 
Council identify any compelling policy rationales for stretching Commission authority in 
an unprecedented way to impose new large load interconnection requirements on ERCOT 
and ERCOT Entities.  As highlighted in Oncor’s initial comments, independence from 
plenary FERC oversight is a key part of ERCOT’s unique regulatory model and allows for 
beneficial experimentation in policy implementation and market design.12  This model has 
helped Texas emerge as a leader in establishing new regulatory paradigms for 
interconnecting and serving large load customers.13  Indeed, numerous commenters in this 
proceeding highlighted Texas’s policy innovations on this exact topic.14  Rather than 
 
11  See Oncor Initial Comments at 1-3, 11-13; Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission Sys., Docket No. RM26-4-000, Comments of the National Rural 
Electric Cooperative Association at 14-15 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (arguing that, to achieve 
the ANOPR’s stated purpose of avoiding “‘even arguably affecting the States’ jurisdiction’ 
over the facilities excluded from Commission jurisdiction by section 201(b) of the FPA, 
…. Interconnections to the ‘transmission system’ should be defined by reference to the 
seven-factor test for ‘transmission facilities’ under section 201, not by reference to the 
‘bulk power system’ under section 215”) (citations omitted). 
12  Oncor Initial Comments at 6-7, 14. 
13  See id. at 14 & n.39. 
14  See, e.g., Initial Comments in Docket No. RM26-4-000 from PJM Interconnection, 
L.L.C. at 10-11 (discussing ERCOT’s “connect-and-manage” construct); American 
Electric Power Service Corp. at 8-10 (same); Eolian, L.P., Attach. A at 9, 15 (same); 
Longroad Energy Holdings, LLC at 7 (same); Entergy Operating Cos. at 25 (discussing 
ERCOT’s 75 MW threshold for large loads); Shell Energy North America (US) L.P. at 4 
(same); Industrial Customer Organizations at 27 (same); Bloom Energy Corp., Attach. at 
2, 10, 22 (discussing Texas’s “Private Use Network” rules); Thermal Battery Alliance at 2 
(same); L. Lynne Kiesling, Ph.D at 9 (same); Advanced Energy United at 27 (discussing 
ERCOT requirements for existing generators seeking to serve new large load); Base Power 
Co., Inc. at 4-5 (discussing ERCOT’s definition of “Controllable Load Resources”); EDF 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
6 
 
disrupting established jurisdictional boundaries, FERC should ensure that any rule it 
promulgates in this proceeding continues the long tradition of respect for ERCOT’s 
independence. 
Oncor respectfully requests that the Commission consider these reply comments in 
contemplating the adoption of any rule in this proceeding. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
  /s/ John N. Estes III 
 
 
 
Martha Henson 
Director of Regulatory Affairs 
ONCOR ELECTRIC DELIVERY  
COMPANY, LLC 
1005 Congress Ave, Suite 700 
Austin, TX 78701  
(214) 536-9004 
martha.henson@oncor.com 
John N. Estes III 
Juliana Brint 
JENNER & BLOCK LLP 
1099 New York Ave NW #900 
Washington, DC 20001 
(202) 639-5349 
jestes@jenner.com 
jbrint@jenner.com 
 
Counsel for Oncor Electric Delivery 
Company, LLC 
 
December 5, 2025 
 
 
Power Solutions, Inc. at 14-15 (discussing ERCOT as a model for expedited studies of 
loads with less significant impacts on the transmission system); GridStor LLC at 2 
(discussing ERCOT’s voltage, curtailment, and frequency ride-through requirements for 
data centers). 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
I hereby certify that I have this day served the foregoing document upon each 
person designated on the official service list compiled by the Secretary in this proceeding. 
Dated at Washington, D.C. this 5th day of December, 2025. 
  /s/ Juliana Brint 
 
 
 
Juliana Brint 
JENNER & BLOCK LLP 
1099 New York Ave NW #900 
Washington, DC 20001 
(202) 637-6320 
jbrint@jenner.com 
 
 
 
