--- PAGE 1 ---
- 1 - 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate ) 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Transmission System 
 
 
 
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
) 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL COMMENTS OF ITC 
 
 
Pursuant to the Notice Inviting Comments issued by the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission (“FERC” or “Commission”) on October 27, 2025,1 ITC Holdings Corp. (“ITC”) 
submits the following supplemental comments.  ITC supports the Commission’s efforts to evaluate 
and identify potential reforms to ensure large loads can interconnect quickly and reliably while 
avoiding cost shifts to existing customers.2  This goal is echoed in the White House’s Ratepayer 
Protection Pledge, which reflects the broader national emphasis on advancing data center 
development while protecting existing ratepayers from adverse impacts.3  In our view, current 
regulatory frameworks, including  large loads’ obligations to pay for the ongoing development, 
maintenance, and operation of the overall transmission system through network transmission 
service charges, accomplish these goals when paired with proactive transmission planning, the 
knowledge of local Transmission Owners, and other policies that promote optimal long-term 
solutions over quick or narrowly focused fixes.   
As FERC continues to examine the record in this proceeding, ITC would like to highlight 
the real-world impacts of data center development in our Iowa footprint, where the addition of 
 
1 Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Notice Inviting 
Comments, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 27, 2025). 
2 See Comments of ITC previously submitted in this proceeding on November 21, 2025.  
3 The White House, Ratepayer Protection Pledge, available at 
https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2026/03/ratepayer-protection-pledge/ (Published March 4, 2026).  

--- PAGE 2 ---
- 2 - 
 
large loads is projected to progressively reduce transmission rates for customers by expanding 
the load base over which fixed network costs are recovered.  At ITC Midwest,4 thoughtful 
investments we have made over roughly two decades have positioned new load growth to 
reduce, rather than exacerbate, cost pressures on existing customers.  ITC Midwest’s experience 
demonstrates the potential rate benefits that data centers and other large loads can bring to 
existing ratepayers, while also showcasing how proactive investment in the grid has provided 
and continues to provide economic benefits in the company’s footprint. 
I. 
ITC Midwest’s Large Load Success Story  
 
Due largely to massive data center construction commitments in Iowa,5 ITC Midwest 
currently projects a significant decrease in the network transmission rate charged to our 
customers.  Based on current data and projections, by the end of the decade, the network 
transmission rate for ITC Midwest’s customers is anticipated to decrease by approximately 
20% from the 2026 projected rate.  This is a result of the fact that transmission rates are 
largely driven by fixed network costs.  Under current circumstances, the addition of substantial 
data center load can reduce rates over time by expanding the load base over which those fixed 
costs are recovered.  But a key precondition to capturing these benefits is for large loads to be 
assigned network transmission service charges.  Without including large loads in the network 
 
4 ITC Midwest LLC is a wholly owned subsidiary of ITC.  In addition to its significant footprint 
in Iowa, ITC Midwest operates in Minnesota, Illinois, Missouri, and Wisconsin.  
5 See, e.g., QTS Data Centers, QTS Announces New, World-Class Data Center Campus in Cedar 
Rapids, available at https://q.com/news/qts-announces-new-world-class-data-center-campus-in-cedar-
rapids/ (Published August 8, 2025); Google, How Google is driving a new era of American innovation in 
Iowa, available at https://blog.google/feed/new-7-billion-investment-iowa/ (Published May 30, 2025). 

--- PAGE 3 ---
- 3 - 
 
transmission service charge calculation, customers would bear severe cost shifts and not reap the 
associated rate benefits these loads provide for all customers.6  
In addition to the downward pressure on rates, large‑load development can drive broader 
local economic benefits.  Ongoing data center developments in Cedar Rapids, Iowa represent 
some of the largest construction projects in the region’s history, with individual projects driving 
billions of dollars of local investment.7  This is already producing dramatic local economic 
activity, most directly through thousands of construction jobs, many of which go to local 
construction companies.8  Increased demand for lodging, restaurants, general retail, services like 
automotive repair,9 and interest in other local attractions naturally and inevitably follows. These 
are significant impacts that will provide real, if indirect, relief to ratepayers in Iowa by bolstering 
their local economies.  The enormous load growth that the city of Cedar Rapids and state of Iowa 
have been able to attract makes this possible. 
II. 
How ITC Midwest Positioned Itself to Find Rate Relief through Significant Load 
Growth  
 
 Iowa’s ability to attract the large load development from which its residents are now 
benefiting is closely tied to the strength and readiness of the transmission system in the state.  
ITC Midwest has invested more than $5.8 billion to upgrade the grid for reliable and rapid power 
 
6 See Supplemental Comments of WIRES, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (filed March 30, 2026) and 
Concentric Energy Advisors, The Risks of Cost Shifts in Serving Large Loads Under a Framework with 
Direct Allocation of Transmission Costs (March 30, 2026). 
7 See Scope of QTS data project in Cedar Rapids continuing to grow, available at 
https://corridorbusiness.com/scope-of-qts-data-project-in-cedar-rapids-continuing-to-grow/ (Published 
December 2, 2025).  
8 See, e.g., Data center construction reshapes Cedar Rapids housing market, available at 
https://www.thegazette.com/news/local/data-center-construction-reshapes-cedar-rapids-housing-
market/article_70c55cde-49ad-408e-82d1-7e92b7bedabe.html (Published March 8, 2026). 
9 Id. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
- 4 - 
 
delivery.  This is crucial to data centers and other large loads when evaluating prospective 
development sites.10 
The robustness of Iowa’s transmission grid is particularly notable given where the system 
started.  ITC Midwest acquired the transmission system from Alliant Energy in 2007 to help 
remedy the reliability and congestion challenges the system was faced with.  In the intervening 
years, significant capital and operational commitments were necessary to remedy these 
conditions, resulting in a 77% reduction in outages (through 2025) and industry-leading 
reliability performance.  Importantly, ITC Midwest’s status as an independent, transmission-only 
utility, working in partnership with Alliant Energy, played a key role in allowing for the 
prioritization of these investments and ensured capital was allocated to upgrading the 
transmission system. 
These investments continue to deliver significant benefits to ITC Midwest’s customers.  
However, they were made during a period of flat load growth on a system serving a largely rural, 
low‑load pricing zone.  As a result, the costs of long‑overdue infrastructure upgrades were 
recovered over fewer billing determinants, causing ITC Midwest’s rates to rise.  Therefore, ITC 
Midwest’s zonal Network Integration Transmission Service rate reflects both a rate base “catch 
up” effect after prolonged underinvestment and the mathematical reality of rate pressure from 
serving a geographically large transmission footprint relative to load.  To put this into 
perspective, ITC Midwest serves roughly 2/3 of the state geographically but only about 1/3 of the 
population, resulting in more transmission assets being spread across fewer customers than other 
major utilities.  
 
10 See, e.g., ICF, How to find the ‘sweet spots’ to build all those data centers, available at 
https://www.icf.com/insights/energy/data-center-siting (2025) (“While all variables in the data center 
siting framework matter, energy typically carries the most weight.”). 

--- PAGE 5 ---
- 5 - 
 
Today this dynamic is changing as the future that ITC Midwest envisioned is finally 
arriving.  The same investments that improved system performance and expanded capability 
have helped create conditions that allow large loads to interconnect with relative ease compared 
to other suitable data center locations.  Iowa’s grid improvements helped make the state an 
attractive destination for large-load investment, and that new load growth is now positioned to 
deliver measurable rate benefits to existing customers over time.  Importantly, these large loads 
benefit from the historical investments ITC Midwest customers have paid for over the years.  
Thus, it is imperative new large load customers pay their fair share through network transmission 
service charges.  This way, everyone wins.  
ITC Midwest’s forward‑looking, proactive approach to grid development, reinforced 
through MISO’s Long‑Range Transmission Planning (“LRTP”) portfolios, has enabled faster 
large‑load interconnections by providing available regional capacity and reducing the scope and 
cost of network upgrades, benefiting both new customers and existing ratepayers.  A key factor 
in accommodating the data center growth in Iowa was ITC Midwest’s ability to start developing 
the LRTP projects right after MISO Board approval due to the segments not being eligible for 
Order No. 1000 competition.  If the projects had been subject to the solicitation process, it would 
have added almost two years of delay before determining who was responsible for construction, 
irreparably undermining the in-service timeline requirements.  
ITC Midwest was able to set project schedules on two LRTP Tranche 1 projects to meet 
local needs, while also designing a local project to share poles and construction costs with a 
direct-assigned Tranche 1 project.  This experience, along with the truly resilient system we have 
built in Iowa over nearly two decades, is why we believe the enormous new loads already in the 
pipeline are just the beginning.  As LRTP projects come online, we are optimistic Iowa will be 

--- PAGE 6 ---
- 6 - 
 
positioned to accommodate additional data center investment and other future load growth, 
improving reliability and increasing rate benefits for customers over time.   
III. 
CONCLUSION  
ITC will continue to work diligently to prepare its grid for the demands of the future, 
including meeting the nation’s shared goal of rapidly integrating large loads and generation 
resources in a cost-effective manner.  We believe ITC Midwest’s experience provides a strong 
example of how this goal can be accomplished in a manner that protects existing ratepayers 
when paired with policies that encourage implementing optimal long-term transmission 
solutions.  
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/ Kyle Hall Henne 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kyle Hall Henne 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Senior Counsel - Regulatory & Legislative 
ITC Holdings Corp. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
601 13th Street NW 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Suite 910S 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Washington, D.C. 20006 
Ph: (202) 602-2870 
khenne@itctransco.com 
 
 
