--- PAGE 1 ---
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate  ) 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Transmission System 
 
 
 
) 
  
COMMENTS OF PUBLIC INTEREST ORGANIZATIONS 
 
Table of Contents 
I. 
Introduction ....................................................................................................... 2 
II. Background ....................................................................................................... 9 
III. 
Comments ...................................................................................................... 9 
A. 
FERC has jurisdiction to regulate the interconnection of large loads to the 
transmission system, but must not overstep the boundaries of its jurisdiction ............... 9 
1. The FPA provides FERC with multiple relevant sources of jurisdiction. 10 
2. FERC should continue to be mindful not to overstep its jurisdiction by 
regulating matters that the FPA reserves to the states. .............................................. 15 
B. 
Studying Large Loads .............................................................................. 18 
1. DOE NOPR: Principles 4 through 6 ........................................................ 19 
2. Comments ................................................................................................ 20 
C. 
Curtailable Loads ..................................................................................... 26 
1. DOE NOPR: Principle 7 .......................................................................... 26 
2. Comments ................................................................................................ 26 
D. 
Network Upgrades, Transmission Costs, and Ancillary Services ........... 30 
1. DOE NOPR: Principles 8 through 12 ...................................................... 30 
2. Comments ................................................................................................ 31 
E. 
Reliability Reviews .................................................................................. 41 
1. DOE NOPR: Principle 14 ........................................................................ 41 
2. Comments ................................................................................................ 41 
F. 
Implementation Plans .................................................................................. 43 
1. DOE NOPR: Principle 13 ........................................................................ 43 
2. Comments ................................................................................................ 43 
G. 
Other Issues ............................................................................................. 43 
1. Comments ................................................................................................ 43 
IV. 
Conclusion ................................................................................................... 45 
 
 

--- PAGE 2 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
2 
 
I. 
Introduction  
Pursuant to Rule 211 of the Rules of Practice and Procedure of the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission (“FERC” or “Commission”), 18 C.F.R. § 385.211, Clean Air 
Task Force, Inc., Coalition for Affordable Utility Services and Energy Efficiency in 
Pennsylvania, Earthjustice, Environmental Defense Fund, Montana Environmental 
Information Center, Natural Resources Defense Council, Sustainable FERC Project, 
Sierra Club, and Southern Environmental Law Center  (jointly, the “Public Interest 
Organizations”) submit these comments in response to the Commission’s request for 
comments on the Department of Energy (“DOE” or “Department”) October 23, 2025 
proposal directing FERC to initiate a rulemaking concerning the interconnection of large 
loads for final action by the Commission under Section 403 of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act1 (“DOE Proposal” or “Proposal”).2 
As noted in the ANOPR, data centers are driving an extraordinary growth in 
electricity demand.  The North American Electric Reliability Corp (NERC) warned that 
the size and speed with which data centers can be connected to the grid present unique 
challenges for demand forecasting and system planning.3  The Commission considered 
 
1 42 U.S.C. § 7173 (“DOE Organization Act”). 
2 Docket No. RM26-4-000, Department of Energy submits letter proposing a Proposal for final action 
and providing a copy of the Notice of Proposed rulemaking under RM36-6 (Oct. 7, 2025). The full text of the 
proposed ANOPR can be found at: https://www.energy.gov/sites/default/files/2025-
10/403%20Large%20Loads%20Letter.pdf 
3 DOE ANOPR at 1, citing NERC, 2024 Long- Term Reliability Assessment (Dec. 2024, updated July 
2025), 
https://www.nerc.com/pa/RAPA/ra/Reliability%20Assessments%20DL/NERC_Long%20Term%20Reliability%20A
ssessment_2024.pdf at 8. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
3 
 
many of these challenges during its November 1, 2024, Commission-led Technical 
Conference Regarding Large Load Co-Located at Generating Facilities.4 
During the conference, the Commission hosted three panel discussions with a 
diverse set of stakeholders, from regional grid operators (RTOs) and Independent Market 
Monitors to state commissioners.  The conference covered many of the issues relevant to 
this proceeding including jurisdictional service approaches other than co-location (e.g., 
flexible options), impacts on reliability and resource adequacy, stability of wholesale 
electricity market prices, and states’ concerns over affordability and consumer impacts.  
Subsequently, on February 20, 2025, the Commission determined that PJM 
Interconnection, LLC’s (PJM) tariff provisions for co-location arrangements appeared to 
be unjust and unreasonable and initiated a show cause proceeding, which teed up the 
need to resolve many of the challenges raised during the technical conference and related 
to this proceeding.5 
The concerns about large load interconnections all became very real in capacity 
auctions conducted by PJM, when its 2024 auction (for capacity years 2025/2026) 
resulted in capacity costs surging to an eye-popping $14.7 billion, mostly because data 
centers drove prices up.6 PJM’s most recent auction in 2025 (for capacity years 
 
4 Large Loads Co-Located at Generating Facilities, Notice of Commissioner-Led Technical Conference, 
AD24-11-000 (August 2, 2024).  Following the initial notice, FERC issued three supplemental notices revising the 
agenda, and it issued a notice requesting comments. 
5 Order Instituting Proceedings Under Section 206 of the Federal Power Act and Consolidating With Other 
Proceedings, EL25-49-000 (February 20, 2025). 
6 See PJM, 2025/2026 Base Residual Auction Report, at 3 (July 2024), https://www.pjm.com/-
/media/DotCom/markets-ops/rpm/rpm-auction-info/2025-2026/2025-2026-base-residual-auction-report.pdf; see also 
Monitoring Analytics, State of the Market Report for PJM: January through September, at 1 (Nov. 2025),  (“Data 
center load growth is the primary reason for recent and expected capacity market conditions, including total forecast 
load growth, the tight supply and demand balance, and high prices.”). 

--- PAGE 4 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
4 
 
2026/2027) showed similar results, with overall costs of $16.1 billion.7 As PJM’s 
independent market monitor notes, “[d]ata center load growth is the primary reason for 
recent and expected capacity market conditions, including total forecast load growth, the 
tight supply and demand balance, and high prices.”8 These recent price surges in PJM 
illustrate how the rapid and unregulated interconnection of new large loads can unjustly 
and unreasonably impose extreme costs and significant reliability risks on other 
consumers.9   
Capacity costs are not the only driver. With respect to transmission costs, the 
Union of Concerned Scientists issued a report finding that during 2024, “utilities in seven 
PJM states passed more than $4.3 billion in additional costs on to customers, with billions 
more still . . . from local transmission upgrades made to provide transmission level 
service directly to data centers.”10 These costs are allocated to load-serving entities as a 
whole, and state regulators are responsible for allocating transmission costs amongst 
retail rate classes. This jurisdictional split in the cost allocation process shifts data center 
costs on to other customers.11 Absent sufficient guardrails and information, this new 
 
7 PJM, 2026/2027 Base Residual Auction Report, at 3, https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/markets-
ops/rpm/rpm-auction-info/2026-2027/2026-2027-bra-report.pdf.  
8 see also Monitoring Analytics, State of the Market Report for PJM: January through September, at 1 
(Nov. 2025), https://www.monitoringanalytics.com/reports/PJM_State_of_the_Market/2025/2025q3-som-pjm.pdf 
(“Data center load growth is the primary reason for recent and expected capacity market conditions, including total 
forecast load growth, the tight supply and demand balance, and high prices.”). 
9 See, e.g., Monitoring Analytics, State of the Market Report for PJM: January through June (Aug. 2025), 
at 314, https://www.monitoringanalytics.com/reports/PJM_State_of_the_Market/2025.shtml (noting that “data 
center load growth is the primary reason for recent and expected capacity market conditions, including total forecast 
load growth, the tight supply and demand balance, and high prices,” and specifically that “data center load by itself 
resulted in an increase in the 2025/2026 BRA revenues of $9,332,103,858 or 174.3 percent”). 
10 Union of Concerned Scientists, Connecting Costs: Loophole Costs Customers Over $4 Billion to 
Connect Data Centers to Power Grid (September 2025): https://www.ucs.org/sites/default/files/2025-
09/PJM%20Data%20Center%20Issue%20Brief%20-%20Sep%202025.pdf at 1. 
11 See https://eelp.law.harvard.edu/wp-content/uploads/2025/03/Harvard-ELI-Extracting-Profits-from-the-
Public.pdf at 14. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
5 
 
demand will raise power bills, increase the risk of blackouts, and create more air 
pollution.  While PJM and other RTOs, like the Southwest Power Pool, have initiated 
tariff filings or stakeholder processes to integrate large load customers in the near-term,12 
DOE’s ANOPR gives the Commission an opportunity to take stock of the record from 
these proposals and earlier proceedings to devise a comprehensive approach for 
interconnecting large loads in the near-term, given the widespread desire for interim 
options. Further, a standardized rule itself could help eliminate incentives for seeking 
interconnections in multiple regions, helping to create more accurate large load forecasts. 
These comments present preliminary thoughts on the fourteen principles 
enunciated in DOE’s Proposal. While DOE’s Proposal articulates numerous important 
concepts, many of which we support, DOE has done so at a very high level. Because 
DOE’s ANOPR is much less detailed and specific than prior notices for comparably 
important issues,13 these comments provide feedback at a similarly high level without 
specificity. We look forward to reviewing how FERC develops these important concepts 
in a NOPR in this docket, and we anticipate filing more developed and detailed 
comments at that time. Our views and comments may evolve as FERC develops its 
proposals. Generally, we believe that DOE’s Proposal is correct that the rapid 
proliferation of new large loads presents challenges that FERC must address to maintain 
 
12 See, e.g., PJM Interconnection, LLC, Critical Issue Fast Path for Large Load Additions (September 25, 
2025): https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/committees-groups/cifp-lla/2025/20250915/20250915-item-07---
pjm-initial-proposal-and-alternatives-considered---pjm-presentation.pdf; Tri-State Generation and Transmission 
Association, Inc., 193 FERC ¶ 61,070 (2025); Southwest Power Pool, Revisions to Add the High Impact Large Load 
Processes and Generation Assessment, Docket No. ER26-247-000 (October 24, 2025).  
13 For example, FERC’s ANOPR that ultimately led to the issuance of Orders No. 1920 and 2023 was over 
100 pages long and included detailed information about the potential need for reform and about specific reforms the 
agency was contemplating.  

--- PAGE 6 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
6 
 
a reliable and affordable electric grid. In short, new large loads—principally data 
centers—are seeking to connect to the grid much faster than new generation can currently 
be interconnected, and the resulting imbalance in demand and supply threatens to 
radically increase energy prices and challenge the reliability of electric service. Because 
these threats to affordability and reliability are emerging rapidly, FERC should quickly 
address how to interconnect large loads under its FPA authority.  
While FERC should act promptly to address immediate affordability and 
reliability challenges, FERC must also develop and enhance longer-term transmission 
planning and interconnection strategies to ensure that stable planning structures are 
sufficient to ensure reliable electric service at just, reasonable, and not unduly 
discriminatory rates, and are consistent with longstanding open-access principles. The 
Commission’s goal should be to ensure that transmission-planning and interconnection 
procedures – for both large loads and generation – are sufficiently rigorous to realistically 
assess the growth in demand, anticipate changes in the generation mix, and proactively 
plan for the resulting transmission needs. The grid is at an inflection point, and we need 
to increase transmission capacity – both within and between regions – to ensure 
affordable, reliable electricity while we meet the moment to serve these new loads. New 
transmission capacity – regional and interregional, whether gained through grid-
enhancing technologies, advanced conductors, or new transmission build – will bolster 
reliability and allow large loads to interconnect more quickly and at least cost. 
Connecting load centers to regions with excess supply power can reduce costs and avoid 

--- PAGE 7 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
7 
 
redundant infrastructure by allowing regions to share their generating resources.14 This 
infrastructure can also save customers money - $7.8 billion to $10.6 billion annually 
according to a recent study of interregional transmission expansion recommended by 
NERC.15 Further, significant capacity gains can be made fairly quickly through the 
addition of advanced transmission technologies (ATTs) to the system.  ATTs can boost 
capacity by an additional 20 to 100 GW of peak demand without building new wires.16  
In this rulemaking and other dockets, FERC should consider ways within its authority to 
encourage the adoption of these technologies as an additional way to meet growing loads. 
In developing strategies to address the rapid proliferation of new large loads, 
whether in the short term or the long term, the Commission should follow the guiding 
principle that new large loads should not be permitted to harm affordability or reliability 
for existing consumers. Consistent with the Federal Power Act’s (FPA) fundamental cost-
causation principles, new large loads should be responsible for the costs they cause, and it 
would be unjust and unreasonable for the costs caused by new large loads to be shifted to 
existing consumers who did not cause those costs and who receive no, or trivial, benefits 
from the infrastructure developed to serve new large loads. Similarly, new large loads 
should not imperil reliability for other consumers; for example, it would not be just and 
 
14 Audun Botterud et al., Bridging the Gaps: The Impact of Interregional Transmission on Emissions and 
Reliability, MIT Center for Energy and Environmental Policy Research, August 2024, 
https://ceepr.mit.edu/workingpaper/bridging-the-gaps-the-impact-of-interregional-transmission-on-emissions-and-
reliability/. 
15 Michael Goggin, Zach Zimmerman, and Dana Ammann, NERC’s Recommended Grid Expansion Would 
Save Consumers Billions, Grid Strategies and NRDC, February 2025, https://gridstrategiesllc.com/wp-
content/uploads/GS_NRDC_NERCs-Recommended-Grid-Expansion-Report54.pdf. 
16 See ESIG, Grid-Enhancing Technologies: Priorities for a Modern, Efficient, and Flexible Grid 8–9 (July 
2025), available at https://www.esig.energy/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/ESIG-Grid-Enhancing-Technologies-
report-2025.pdf; 

--- PAGE 8 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
8 
 
reasonable for a data-center boom to cause residential or industrial ratepayers to 
experience increased risks of blackouts. Finally, any new rules adopted by FERC cannot 
unduly preference large load customers over other types of customers.   
Under the DOE Organization Act, FERC has exclusive jurisdiction over the DOE 
Proposal.17  After reviewing the comments it receives in response to its notice, FERC 
may:  
(1) concur in adoption of the rule or statement as proposed by the Secretary; 
(2) concur in adoption of the rule or statement only with such changes as it may 
recommend; or 
(3) recommend that the rule or statement not be adopted.[18] 
 
The Secretary’s letter specifically anticipates that “[the Commissioners] and the 
Commission's dedicated staff will build upon these principles and work expeditiously to 
initiate a rulemaking proceeding and ultimately issue a final rule.” If FERC adopts DOE's 
proposal, FERC must provide clear regulations to implement large load interconnection, 
consistent with its statutory obligation under the FPA that the rates, terms, and conditions 
of service must be just, reasonable, and not unduly discriminatory.  We look forward to 
seeing how FERC develops these ideas into a more comprehensive proposal.   
Importantly, large load interconnection affects a variety of energy users and 
providers, including Tribes. We recommend that FERC consult Tribes pursuant to the 
federal government's trust responsibilities.19 
 
17 42 U.S.C. § 7173 (“DOE Organization Act”). 
18 42 U.S.C. § 7174 (“DOE Organization Act”). 
19 See Alliance for Tribal Clean Energy Initial Comments in Docket No. RM26-4-000; See also Seminole 
Nation v. United States, 316 U.S. 286, 296–97 (1942); Eric v. Sec’y of U. S. Dep’t of Hous. & Urban Dev., 464 F. 
Supp. 44 (D. Alaska 1978). 

--- PAGE 9 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
9 
 
II. 
Background 
On October 23, 2025, the Secretary of Energy signed an advance notice of 
proposed rulemaking entitled Ensuring the Timely and Orderly Interconnection of Large 
Loads.  The Secretary proposed the rule under Section 403 of the DOE Organization Act, 
which allows the Department to propose rules, and reasonable timelines for final action 
on those rules, for consideration by FERC. The Proposal states that in light of 
unprecedented growth of large loads, FERC should standardize interconnection 
procedures and agreements for such loads, including those seeking to share a point of 
interconnection with new or existing generation facilities (co-located loads).20 DOE 
includes a set of fourteen principles it believes should inform FERC’s rulemaking on this 
issue. 
III. 
Comments 
A. FERC has jurisdiction to regulate the interconnection of large loads to the 
transmission system, but must not overstep the boundaries of its jurisdiction  
DOE asserts that the FPA allows the Commission to exercise jurisdiction over the 
interconnection of large loads. First, DOE states that large load interconnections are a 
"critical component of open access transmission service” akin to generator 
interconnections that require minimum terms and conditions to ensure non-discriminatory 
 
20 PIOs note that the DOE ANOPR called these loads “hybrid facilities”.  However, in our comments, we 
use the term co-located loads as used in previous FERC orders.  FERC recently adopted PJM’s definition of co-
located loads “as a configuration through which end-use customer load is physically connected to the facilities of an 
existing or planned generation unit on the interconnection customer’s side of the point of interconnection to the … 
transmission system.” See PJM Interconnection, LLC, 190 FERC ¶ 61,115 (2025) at P3.  We do not necessarily 
advocate that FERC must continue to use this definition, but use it for continuity in these comments.  

--- PAGE 10 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
10 
 
transmission service.21  Second, DOE states that the interconnection of large loads is a 
practice directly affecting FERC-jurisdictional wholesale electricity rates.  Finally, DOE 
states that its proposal does not impinge on States' authority over retail electricity sales 
because it does not exert jurisdiction over any retail sales to the large load. Principle 1 of 
the ANOPR explicitly provides that to avoid even arguably affecting the States' 
jurisdiction, the Commission's jurisdiction over large load interconnections should be 
limited to interconnections directly to transmission facilities, consistent with the 
Commission's seven-factor test.22 
1. 
The FPA provides FERC with multiple relevant sources of 
jurisdiction. 
The FPA grants the Commission several sources of jurisdiction that are relevant to 
the regulation of new large load interconnection, including authority over interstate 
transmission, the responsibility to ensure just and reasonable and not unduly 
discriminatory wholesale rates by regulating practices that directly affect rates in 
wholesale energy markets, and responsibility to ensure electric reliability. As the 
Commission works to develop the principles DOE has suggested, it should ground its 
proposed rule in these several sources of authority.   
Large loads exist at the intersection of state and federal jurisdiction.  DOE’s 
ANOPR makes clear that FERC should avoid even arguably affecting the States' 
jurisdiction.  Thus, as the Commission considers how to proceed on regulating the 
interconnection of large loads, it must consider whether its authority presents a sufficient 
 
21 DOE ANOPR at P 13, citing Order No. 2003 at P 9, 11. 
22 DOE ANOPR at P 18. 

--- PAGE 11 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
11 
 
jurisdictional foundation to adopt each of the principles that DOE suggests. We urge 
FERC to work cooperatively with its state colleagues to ensure that federal and state rules 
work seamlessly to interconnect these loads in a manner that prioritizes the protection of 
other consumers from unjust, unreasonable, and unduly discriminatory rates and 
reliability issues.  
Section 206 of the FPA provides FERC with the authority and responsibility to 
ensure that the rates and practices within its jurisdiction are just and reasonable.23  As 
discussed throughout our comments, the interconnection of large loads can shift costs to 
other consumers in an unjust and unreasonable manner. It is incumbent upon FERC to 
adopt rules sufficient to ensure that rates subject to FERC’s jurisdiction will be just and 
reasonable moving forward. Here, this statutory responsibility means that the 
Commission must ensure that the interconnection of new large loads will no longer 
impose unjust and unreasonable expenses on other ratepayers. 
 
23 16 U.S.C. 824e. 

--- PAGE 12 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
12 
 
a. FERC’s jurisdiction over interstate transmission  
The FPA authorizes the Commission to regulate “the transmission of electric 
energy in interstate commerce.”24 The FPA prohibits “unreasonable rates and undue 
discrimination ‘with respect to any transmission or sale subject to the jurisdiction of the 
Commission’” and gives FERC the authority and responsibility to remedy the unlawful 
rates and discriminatory practices.25 The FPA’s grant of jurisdiction over interstate 
transmission provides clear authority for the Commission to regulate interconnections to 
the interstate transmission system.26 DOE’s Proposal suggests that the Commission 
should limit any rule in this docket to regulating solely connections to the interstate 
transmission system, as defined by FERC’s seven-factor test for distinguishing 
transmission infrastructure from distribution infrastructure. PIOs agree that regulating 
interconnection to the transmission grid, as opposed to interconnection to the distribution 
grid, falls within the Commission’s jurisdiction. Accordingly, we support DOE’s 
identification of the Commission’s jurisdiction over transmission as one foundation for 
this rulemaking.  
b. FERC’s jurisdiction over practices directly affecting 
wholesale electricity rates  
In addition to FERC’s jurisdiction over the transmission of electric energy in 
interstate commerce, the FPA also authorizes FERC to regulate “the sale of electric 
energy at wholesale in interstate commerce,” which includes the authority to regulate 
 
24 FERC v. EPSA, 577 U.S. 260, 266, 277 (2016). 
25 New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1, 7 (2002). 
26 See Nat’l Ass’n of Reg. Util. Comm’rs v. FERC, 475 F. 3d 1227, 1279-80 (D.C. Cir. 2007). 

--- PAGE 13 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
13 
 
wholesale electricity rates and any rule or practice directly affecting such rates.27 FERC 
must ensure that “[a]ll rates and charges made, demanded, or received by any public 
utility for or in connection with the transmission or sale of electric energy subject to the 
jurisdiction of the Commission shall be just and reasonable,”28 and FERC has the 
authority to remedy any unreasonable or unduly discriminatory practices.29 This 
jurisdiction gives FERC the authority to correct unjust and unreasonable rates or unduly 
discriminatory or preferential practices that may arise with the interconnection of large 
loads.  
The rapid interconnection of new large loads to the transmission system—and the 
terms on which those new large loads are incorporated into FERC-jurisdictional 
markets—are practices directly affecting wholesale rates, terms and conditions for 
energy, ancillary services, and capacity market prices. For example, the incorporation of 
new large loads as demand in PJM’s capacity market is one of the principal drivers of 
recent dramatic increases in capacity market clearing prices. PJM identified a “3,243 MW 
increase in forecasted load” as one of the drivers of skyrocketing prices in the 2025/2026 
Base Residual Auction (“BRA”).30 Likewise, PJM identified a “5,446.1 MW increase in 
forecasted load” as one of the “[k]ey planning parameter changes” that led the capacity 
market to clear at its cap in the 2026/2027 BRA.31  And PJM expects this trend to 
 
27 EPSA, 577 U.S. at 277. 
28 16 U.S. Code § 824d(a). 
29 New York, 535 U.S. at 7. 
30 PJM, 2025/2026 Base Residual Auction Report, at 3, (July 30, 2024), https://www.pjm.com/-
/media/DotCom/markets-ops/rpm/rpm-auction-info/2025-2026/2025-2026-base-residual-auction-report.pdf.   
31 PJM, 2026/2027 Base Residual Auction Report, at 3 (July 22, 2025), https://www.pjm.com/-
/media/DotCom/markets-ops/rpm/rpm-auction-info/2026-2027/2026-2027-bra-report.pdf. 

--- PAGE 14 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
14 
 
continue at least through the 2030s. PJM’s Independent Market Monitor (“IMM”) 
similarly explains that “the failure to recognize and address the role of large data center 
loads is a direct cause of higher prices and will continue to result in even higher prices 
unless the related issues are addressed.”32 Because the rules for how to incorporate new 
large loads into FERC-jurisdictional markets such as PJM’s capacity market are practices 
directly affecting wholesale rates, the Commission “has the authority—and, indeed, the 
duty—to ensure that rules or practices ‘affecting’ wholesale rates are just and 
reasonable.”33 As the Commission develops DOE’s Proposal into a regulation, it should 
take care to ensure that new large loads do not cause unjust and unreasonable costs for 
other ratepayers.  
c. FERC’s authority under section 215 of the FPA   
FERC also has jurisdiction to regulate the interconnection of large loads under 
FPA section 215. Section 215 of the FPA outlines FERC’s reliability jurisdiction, which 
could serve as an avenue for FERC to address the reliability concerns associated with the 
interconnection of incoming large loads. Section 215 of the FPA gives FERC jurisdiction 
over “all users, owners and operators of the bulk-power system,” and mandates that “[a]ll 
users, owners and operators of the bulk-power system shall comply with reliability 
standards.”34  A large load interconnected to the transmission system would clearly be a 
user of the bulk-power system.  Section 215(d)(5) also allows FERC to direct the North 
 
32 Monitoring Analytics, State of the Market Report for PJM, at 1, 306 (Aug. 14, 2025), 
https://www.monitoringanalytics.com/reports/PJM_State_of_the_Market/2025.shtml 
33 EPSA, 577 U.S. at 266, 277. 
34 16 U.S.C. § 824o(b)(1).  

--- PAGE 15 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
15 
 
American Electric Reliability Corp, which develops reliability standards subject to FERC 
oversight, to develop or modify standards to address a specific matter.35  NERC is 
currently evaluating the effects of large loads on the reliability of the bulk-power system and 
whether it needs to act to set standards for large loads. If necessary, FERC could order NERC to 
submit new or modified reliability standards to FERC to address the reliability of large loads. 
  
2. 
FERC should continue to be mindful not to overstep its 
jurisdiction by regulating matters that the FPA reserves to the states.  
  
While it is important for FERC to exercise its jurisdiction over some issues 
affecting the interconnection of large loads and their imposition of costs on other 
consumers—especially to regulate issues like wholesale market practices where states 
lack authority—it is also important for FERC to recognize that the states have authority 
here as well. As noted in the DOE ANOPR, FERC must take care not to “even arguably 
affect[] the [s]tates' jurisdiction over generation facilities, facilities used in local 
distribution or only for the transmission of electric energy in intrastate commerce, or 
transmissions consumed by the transmitter.”36 While FERC has the authority to regulate 
wholesale sales of electricity in interstate commerce and the transmission of electric 
energy in interstate commerce, the law “leaves to the States alone the regulation of ‘any 
other sale,” maintaining “a zone of exclusive state jurisdiction,”37 
 
35 16 U.S.C. § 824o(d)(5). 
36 DOE ANOPR at P 18. 
37 EPSA  at 280. 

--- PAGE 16 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
16 
 
States have an interest in ensuring resource adequacy and protecting consumers 
from cost shifts.  Many states have adopted policies that can make it easier to connect 
new large loads while also addressing the affordability and reliability of electricity to 
other customers.38 Some include measures like requiring a new large load to subsidize 
energy efficiency efforts in the local area to free up capacity for the large load while 
benefiting local residents and businesses or providing rate relief to certain retail 
customers. For example, a recently approved settlement requires three large data center 
customers to contribute $500,000 annually for five years towards the Indiana Community 
Action Association to be used for low-income assistance, weatherization, and other 
programs.39 Other policies seek to grant queue priority for large customers who benefit 
state economic development priorities or communities, including the recently approved 
Evergy Kansas settlement and the proposed changes to ComEd’s GT&C tariff in 
Illinois.40  Importantly, many state utility commissions have either already approved or 
are in the process of establishing large load tariffs intended to insulate other customers 
from inappropriately bearing the costs utilities incur to interconnect large loads. FERC 
must ensure that any rules it adopts do not impede these programs. 
 
38 See generally, Andrew Satchwell et al., Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory, Electricity Rate Designs for 
Large Loads: Evolving Practices and Opportunities (January 2025) at 3-4, 10-11 (describing the types of controls 
that states are implementing). 
39 See Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission Cause No. 46097 (https://iurc.portal.in.gov/docketed-case-
details/?id=b8cd5780-0546-ef11-8409-001dd803817e). 
40 See Kansas Corporation Commission Docket No. 25-EKME-315-TAR 
(https://estar.kcc.ks.gov/estar/portal/kscc/PSC/DocketDetails.aspx?DocketId=af2fbd6a-5ee7-4ad1-a3ae-
4dfff1afcb87), and Illinois Commerce Commission Docket No. 25-0680 (https://icc.illinois.gov/docket/P2025-
0680/documents). 

--- PAGE 17 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
17 
 
FERC recently recognized that its jurisdiction over large loads is limited. On 
October 27, 2025, FERC rejected Tri-State Generation and Transmission Association 
(Tri-State)’s proposed High Impact Load (HIL) Tariff.41 Tri-State, a nonprofit wholesale 
generation and transmission cooperative, filed a proposed tariff on August 28, 2025, 
which included a comprehensive study process to evaluate High Impact Load requests 
(the “HIL program”).42  
FERC correctly decided that that Tri-State’s proposal presented “an impermissible 
intrusion on retail rate regulation and thus [was] not subject to the Commission’s 
authority pursuant to section 205 of the FPA.”43 FERC found that Tri-State’s HIL Tariff 
dictated specific terms and conditions of the retail sale of electricity, specifically by 
setting requirements for certain minimum load and energy amounts and maximum 
monthly retail energy or demand caps.44  
FERC also reasonably declined to address other jurisdictional issues raised by the 
protesters, particularly questions regarding the extent of FERC’s jurisdiction over 
transmission-level interconnections of large loads, as that issue was not properly 
presented in that docket. However, DOE’s Proposal may now require FERC to grapple 
with broader questions about the extent of its jurisdiction over the interconnections of 
large loads to the transmission system.  
 
41 193 FERC ¶ 61,070, at P 1 (2025). 
42 Id. 
43 Id. at 19. 
44 Id. at 21. 

--- PAGE 18 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
18 
 
The electric system is complex and sits at the confluence of state and federal 
jurisdiction, and FERC and the states have had to work cooperatively on many issues.  As 
the Supreme Court has noted, the FPA incorporates principles of “cooperative 
federalism” with respect to the roles of state and federal regulators in energy regulation.45 
For example, the Court has acknowledged the interconnectedness of wholesale and retail 
ratemaking, holding in Hughes v. Talen Energy Marketing, that “[s]tates, of course, may 
regulate within the domain Congress assigned to them even when their laws incidentally 
affect areas within FERC’s domain,”46 while holding in FERC v. Electric Power Supply 
Association that “a FERC regulation does not run afoul of [the FPA]  just because it 
affects—even substantially—the quantity or terms of retail sales.”47  The Court further 
established that the FPA “makes federal and state powers ‘complementary’ and 
‘comprehensive,’ so that ‘there [will] be no “gaps” for private interests to subvert the 
public welfare.”48 
Following with the spirit of the cooperative federalism principles outlined in EPSA 
and Hughes, we encourage FERC to set minimum standards governing the 
interconnection of new large loads—floors, not ceilings—to allow for more rigorous state 
regulation and encourage RTO/ISOs and utilities to work closely with state regulators to 
address the incoming large load demands.  
  
B. Studying Large Loads 
 
45 EPSA, 577 U.S. at 288. 
46 Hughes, 578 U.S. at 164. 
47 EPSA, 577 U.S. at 281. 
48 Id. at 289. 

--- PAGE 19 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
19 
 
1. 
DOE NOPR: Principles 4 through 6 
DOE set out several principles that concern how the FERC rule should address 
studying large loads.  Principle 3 provides that, “to the extent practicable, load and [co-
located loads] should be studied together with generating facilities.”49 DOE states that 
this will allow for efficient siting of loads and generating facilities, minimizing the need 
for costly network upgrades. The ANOPR provides an example of siting a large load near 
or at the same point of interconnection as a new generating facility, which could reduce 
the network upgrades needed to interconnect only the load or only the generating facility. 
Principle 4 would also require large loads and co-located loads to be subject to 
standardized study deposits, readiness requirements, and withdrawal penalties.50 
According to DOE, “[t]hese provisions deter speculative projects and provide 
transmission providers with more useful information to more accurately forecast demand 
on their systems.” DOE also explicitly seeks comment on whether additional 
commitments or financial penalties would be appropriate. 
Principle 5 provides that co-located loads should be studied based on the amount 
of injection and/or withdrawal rights requested as an incentive for large loads to co-locate 
with new generation. DOE provides an example of a co-located load consisting of a 500 
MW load and a 600 MW generating facility seeking no withdrawal rights and 100MW of 
injection rights.  
 
49 DOE ANOPR at P 20.  
50 DOE ANOPR at P21.  

--- PAGE 20 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
20 
 
Principle 6 provides that “any [co-located load] interconnection shall be required 
to install the system protection facilities necessary to prevent unauthorized injections or 
withdrawals that exceed the respective rights.” 
2. 
Comments 
We agree with the principles in the DOE proposal that seek to maintain reliability 
and minimize cost while interconnecting large loads.  However, this must be paired with 
a principle that new large loads cannot disadvantage existing customers – either from a 
reliability or cost perspective. Further, as discussed above, we believe that FERC should 
look at this as a near-term issue, while also looking for a long-term solution that will 
create transmission planning, interconnection, and market processes that can successfully 
plan for the integration of these large loads as a regular course of business.  We 
understand that we are in a period of rapid integration of large loads to the grid while it 
takes time to plan and build new generation and transmission resources, and FERC may 
need to address this near-term need with specialized tools.  If we can get transmission 
planning and interconnection rules right, together with proper forecasting, grid operators 
can mitigate the issues in the long-term. This must include consideration of the 
interregional transmission capacity that is needed to ensure reliability, which will also 
help integrate new loads.51 Importantly, in the long term, building out the system in 
response to discrete, emergent needs rather than through proactive, forward-looking, 
system-wide planning fails to identify the most cost-effective infrastructure investments, 
 
51 See generally NERC Interregional Transfer Capability Study, available at 
https://www.nerc.com/initiatives/additional-initiatives/interregional-transfer-capability-study-itcs. 

--- PAGE 21 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
21 
 
which would solve the reliability issues associated with new large loads and provide 
broader system benefits.52 The magnitude of estimated load growth necessitates a more 
systematic approach to addressing these needs in the long term to ensure a reliable and 
affordable grid.  
To that end, Principle 3 is a step in the right direction. Studying system needs 
holistically is essential to ensuring least-regrets system planning.  FERC should set a 
long-term course where utilities plan for their system needs - transmission, generator 
interconnection, and the needs of loads – by either more closely coordinating existing 
transmission planning and generator interconnection processes or in a single 
comprehensive process.  Accounting for all system needs by considering transmission 
planning, generator interconnection, and the need to serve all loads will ultimately 
increase transparency, reduce costs, and cut inefficiencies.53 That said, we recognize the 
need for processes to quickly interconnect new loads in a just and reasonable and not 
unduly discriminatory way while the Commission and states work on a long-term 
solution.   
 
52 See Order No. 1920 at P 136 (“By expanding the transmission planning horizon and considering factors 
affecting Long Term Transmission Needs, as well as considering a broader list of benefits, transmission providers 
will be able to identify, evaluate, and select more efficient or cost-effective transmission solutions to address Long-
Term Transmission Needs. Such Long-Term Regional Transmission Planning will: (1) reduce reliance on 
transmission solutions that are relatively inefficient or less cost-effective because they address only short-term 
transmission needs; (2) unlock the benefits of economies of scale in transmission investment;(3) enable 
opportunities to “right size” replacement transmission facilities; (4) facilitate the selection of regional transmission 
facilities that could address multiple transmission needs over different time horizons; and (5) provide states, utilities, 
customers, and other stakeholders with greater insight and transparency into the costs and benefits of particular 
transmission solutions to address Long-Term Transmission Needs. We conclude that these regional transmission 
planning and cost allocation reforms will benefit customers by leading to more efficient or cost-effective 
transmission investment, thereby helping to ensure just and reasonable rates”). See also PIO Comments (Docket No. 
EL25-49-000) at 13-14. 
53 See SPP’s CPP https://elibrary.ferc.gov/eLibrary/filelist?accession_number=20251103-
5149&optimized=false&sid=7c8ec448-abb4-495d-b95e-f5d1266d32e4  

--- PAGE 22 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
22 
 
In setting up a short-term solution structure, FERC must ensure that any new 
processes do not disadvantage current market participants or interconnection customers. 
There are at least three ways a large load can acquire its own generation: (1) enter into an 
agreement with existing generation for all or most of its energy production, (2) enter into 
an agreement with a generator in the current interconnection queue, or (3) develop its 
own new generation. In addition, FERC should make clear that these studies can and 
should include studying battery storage – either co-located with the large load or as an 
addition to existing generation - as an option for integrating large loads.54 Battery storage 
can be deployed quickly—on average within 1.7 years—making them an ideal part of the 
solution to the short-term concerns about interconnecting new large loads.55  Moreover, 
during much of the year, there is sufficient capacity to serve this new demand. It is only 
during a few hours and days when demand would exceed supply that additional 
generation would be needed. Battery storage is a good solution to meet this short-term 
need. The Nicholas institute found that the grid could integrate 98 GW of new load at an 
average annual load curtailment rate of 0.5%, and 126 GW at a rate of 1.0%56 - some of 
that capacity could be addressed by the addition of battery storage.  
 
54 While outside the scope of this rulemaking proceeding, PIOs also note that significant capacity gains can 
be made through the addition of Advanced Transmission Technologies (ATTs) to the system.  ATTs can boost 
capacity by an additional 20 to 100 GW of peak demand without building new wires.  FERC should consider ways 
within its authority to encourage the adoption of these technologies as an additional way to meet growing loads. See 
ESIG, Grid-Enhancing Technologies: Priorities for a Modern, Efficient, and Flexible Grid 8–9 (July 2025), 
available at https://www.esig.energy/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/ESIG-Grid-Enhancing-Technologies-report-
2025.pdf;  
55 See Solar Energy Industries Association, Why Batteries Are the Electric Grid’s Most Powerful Asset, 
(Apr. 2025), https://seia.org/blog/why-batteries-are-the-electric-grids-most-powerful-asset/ (" a new battery 
project takes approximately 20 months on average”).  
56 Rethinking Load Growth: Assessing the Potential for Integration of Large Flexible Loads in US Power 
Systems at 2, available at https://nicholasinstitute.duke.edu/sites/default/files/publications/rethinking-load-
growth.pdf 

--- PAGE 23 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
23 
 
As discussed below with respect to Principle 10, FERC should not allow any 
single customer to claim either full or partial rights to the generation from an existing 
generator because it can cause reliability and resource adequacy concerns for the rest of 
the system. 
Still, we support the concept of studying load with generation to minimize the 
need for network upgrades.  Notably, any FERC rule must ensure that studying 
generation with only these large loads does not disadvantage current market participants 
or interconnection customers. It already takes far too long to interconnect a generator to 
the grid.  Adding one-off processes can add administrative and modeling complexity to 
utility processes that may delay the utility’s timely processing of existing queue requests, 
reduce transparency, and further erode stakeholder confidence in the interconnection 
process.  FERC should emphasize accelerating interconnection processes generally over 
adopting separate fast-tracks, and must at least implement safeguards to prevent fast-
tracks from causing harm to the existing generator interconnection process. 
Moreover, FERC must ensure that any decision to study generation with large 
loads does not create unintended consequences. Using DOE’s example of siting a large 
load near or at the same point of interconnection as a new generating facility – FERC 
must ensure that such a choice does not force network upgrade costs that would otherwise 
be shared onto other customers or degrade reliability or resource adequacy for others. For 
example, if that generator is already in the queue, it may have been planned to address a 
resource adequacy concern in the region. FERC should not allow the new large load to 
automatically assume that the generator will serve only that load without assessing its 

--- PAGE 24 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
24 
 
effects on the region. In addition, removing a generator from the queue could have 
negative impacts on the rest of the queue – particularly if it has already been assigned to a 
cluster or been partially studied.  This could lead to re-studies or impose costs on other 
generators in the queue in an unjust and unreasonable way that is inconsistent with Order 
No. 2023. In creating new rules, FERC should set out safeguards that ensure that any 
decision to pair a large load with new generation does not impact existing customers or 
other generators in the queue.  
We generally agree with Principle 5 that co-located loads should be studied based 
on the amount of injection and/or withdrawal rights requested. That said, such a study 
must be paired with a commitment not to take service from the grid that exceeds that 
which was studied. In DOE’s example of a co-located loads consisting of a 500 MW load 
and a 600 MW generating facility seeking no withdrawal rights and 100MW of injection 
rights, that means that the load should not be allowed to take transmission above that 100 
MW unless it is available after all other customers have taken service. We discuss 
curtailment principles below.   
Moreover, DOE's Principle 5 does not address what happens if the generator is on 
outage or operating below 500 MW output.  In that case, the large load’s right to take 
transmission service should be reduced in parallel. In sum, unless appropriate control 
technologies are included, as DOE’s Principle 6 contemplates, or the load is willing to 
completely curtail, it should have to be studied at whatever minimum level it wants to be 
guaranteed to operate at, and also have withdrawal rights for that amount. 

--- PAGE 25 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
25 
 
Principle 6 in DOE’s proposal offers a common-sense way to ensure that co-
located loads remain within the limits of their agreed-upon terms of service. Principle 6—
that “any hybrid interconnection shall be required to install the system protection 
facilities necessary to prevent unauthorized injections or withdrawals that exceed the 
respective rights”—appropriately focuses on control technologies as a primary approach 
rather than on financial incentives. Control technologies are a better approach because 
they can allow direct control of injections or withdrawals and thus prevent any harm 
associated with unauthorized actions, such as distortions in market prices or threats to 
reliability. While penalties for unauthorized injections or withdrawals may also be 
helpful, they will not prevent unauthorized actions or their harmful consequences in the 
first instance. Moreover, unless penalties are set high enough, an entity that stands to gain 
more from an unauthorized withdrawal or injection than it would lose from the penalty 
may simply view the penalty as the cost of doing business—and may unjustly and 
unreasonably impose excess costs or reliability risks on other consumers. Control 
technologies are a superior approach, and we encourage FERC to consider requiring the 
use of appropriate control technologies to control withdrawals for all new large loads 
rather than only for co-located facilities. 
Finally, FERC should consider whether the rules should provide a pathway to firm 
service by either requiring the curtailable interconnection to be some form of temporary 
authorization, with an obligation to study what would be necessary to fully serve the load 
at some defined point in the future, or allow a large load to request a study on what would 
be necessary for full service in the future. 

--- PAGE 26 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
26 
 
With respect to Principle 4, we agree that FERC should set minimum standards to 
promote accurate load forecasting and guard against the risk of speculative or duplicative 
large load interconnection requests. We agree that FERC could use the standards set in 
Order No. 2023 and the NERC July 2025 Large Loads Taskforce Whitepaper57 as a guide 
to setting load interconnection standards, but reserve comments on this until we see 
specific proposals. Regions could go above and beyond these minimal standards, but 
FERC should establish a floor.  
C. Curtailable Loads 
1. 
DOE NOPR: Principle 7 
Principle 7 states that large loads and/or co-located loads that agree to be 
“curtailable and dispatchable” should be eligible for expedited interconnection. The 
ANOPR specifically seeks comment on details of any such expedited interconnection 
process. 
2. 
Comments 
We agree with the overarching reality that demand from new large loads threatens 
to outstrip supply, especially during grid emergencies and extreme weather events. This 
threat increases the risk of blackouts, mandatory curtailments, and high scarcity prices 
across the United States for all customers. As such, it is important that both FERC and 
states grapple with questions of curtailment priority and flexibility requirements for new 
large loads to ensure that this risk is appropriately allocated, while respecting 
 
57 https://www.nerc.com/globalassets/who-we-are/standing-committees/rstc/whitepaper-characteristics-and-risks-of-
emerging-large-loads.pdf   

--- PAGE 27 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
27 
 
jurisdictional boundaries. Significant gains can be made with fairly minor curtailment. 
According to the Nicholas Institute, “76 GW of new load—equivalent to 10% of the 
nation’s current aggregate peak demand—could be integrated with an average annual 
load curtailment rate of 0.25%.”58  Increasing that to 0.5% could yield 98 GW of new 
load and 1% would lead to 126 GW of new loads. Moreover, Duke and the Nicholas 
Institute recently noted that large load flexibility can achieve three key achieve three key 
benefits:  
(1) faster interconnection times for large loads,  
(2) avoided or deferred transmission investments, and  
(3) avoided generation capacity investments, and/or near-term reliability and 
affordability for all customers as supply catches up with rising demand.59 
 
Duke/Nicholas recognize that DOE stated its curtailment principle at a high level 
and leaves to FERC the question of how to implement a large load interconnection rule 
that realizes the benefits of flexibility.  They lay out four issues that FERC would need to 
address, which we endorse:  
1. Enable large load flexibility commitments to avoid or defer transmission 
upgrades 
2. Enable large load flexibility commitments to reduce capacity procurements 
3. Enable flexible large loads to access non-firm withdrawal and, as applicable, 
injection rights 
4. Clarify study timelines, queue priority, and interconnection process for large load 
customers, as well as load-supply [co-located loads] facilities and pairings.60 
 
 
58 Rethinking Load Growth: Assessing the Potential for Integration of Large Flexible Loads in US Power 
Systems at 2, available at https://nicholasinstitute.duke.edu/sites/default/files/publications/rethinking-load-
growth.pdf 
59 Duke/Nicholas Institute, How DOE’s Proposed Large Load Interconnection Process Could Unlock the 
Benefits of Load Flexibility Considerations for Rulemaking at 3, available at 
https://nicholasinstitute.duke.edu/sites/default/files/publications/how-does-proposed-large-load-interconnection-
process-could-unlock-benefits-load-flexibility.pdf.  
60 Id. 

--- PAGE 28 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
28 
 
Large load interconnection can and should be managed via curtailment until new 
generation not already in the queue is added. Before speaking to the details of any 
expedited interconnection priority for large loads that “agree to be curtailable and 
dispatchable,” we believe it is crucial to first establish four principles that should guide 
any decision regarding the curtailment or expedited interconnection of large loads. This 
has been a key issue in a recent PJM “Critical Issue Fast Path” (CIFP) process on the 
integration of large loads, and we will use examples from the PJM CIFP process where 
appropriate. 
First, FERC must not infringe upon state retail authority. Second, FERC must 
establish guidelines to limit unfair allocation of reliability risks at the wholesale level. 
Third, FERC should establish guidelines that balance two competing risks: the risk of 
curtailment on large loads, and the risk of high energy prices or scarcity prices on all 
customers. Curtailed too early, and large loads face potentially long and frequent outage 
periods, during which they may need to rely on backup generation. Curtailed too late, and 
all other customers will be forced to shoulder high energy prices and even scarcity prices 
that can reach millions of dollars per minute. Striking the right balance to ensure fair 
service is provided to large loads while protecting other customer classes is crucial. 
Fourth, FERC should endeavor to utilize existing programs and market products 
that may achieve the same goals set out by the DOE to enhance flexibility of large loads, 
including demand response. These programs sit squarely within wholesale jurisdiction 
and may bring about the same benefits as “curtailment.”  These existing programs may be 

--- PAGE 29 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
29 
 
used to both provide a large load with firm service, as well as to hedge against 
curtailment risk during grid emergencies, as explained in the third principle. 
Several RTOs have been considering how to address the curtailment of large loads.  
There are many ways FERC could navigate the need for curtailiability. NRDC proposed 
one potential simple solution to curtailment in the PJM CIFP process: curtailments for 
any non-capacity backed large loads (i.e., large loads that have not paid for firm service) 
would be determined by PJM at the zonal level. For example, if a 500 MW new large 
load connects to PJM with 300 MW of new capacity (in the form of new supply or 
demand response deliverable to the new large load), the remaining 200 MW of non-firm 
load could be subject to curtailment. During an emergency, PJM would allocate this 
curtailment at the wholesale level, by telling the relevant Locational Deliverability Area 
that it needs to curtail load by 200 MW. It would be up to the state regulators to further 
allocate this curtailment between retail customers. This separation of responsibilities 
could help avoid jurisdictional disputes.  
In the PJM CIFP, NRDC attempted to balance the risk of curtailment of large loads 
and the risk of high prices to other customers by proposing to curtail any large loads that 
have not secured firm service with other demand response resources on the early side, but 
always prior to scarcity pricing intervals. Additionally, any curtailment requirements must 
not allow a backup generator to be in violation of state or federal air quality laws or 
maximum backup generation run-time requirements. FERC could also provide guidance 
on pathways for large loads to hedge against curtailment risks, for example by utilizing 
energy-only resources to net against demand response.  

--- PAGE 30 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
30 
 
Overall, large loads can pose serious risks to the public if guaranteed firm service 
without a plan for flexibility or to bring on new supply – indeed, “firm service” may not 
be a guarantee that RTOs can make for any customer based on current projections. We 
agree with the intent of encouraging flexibility in order to minimize reliability risks, but 
believe that the four principles outlined here must be respected while developing any 
curtailment or wholesale interconnection guidelines. To provide FERC with further 
information about the practicalities of curtailment , we recommend FERC host a 
technical conference and invite data center developers, NERC, and others to discuss these 
practicalities.  
D. Network Upgrades, Transmission Costs, and Ancillary Services 
1. 
DOE NOPR: Principles 8 through 12 
Principles 8 through 12 generally aim to ensure that new large loads and co-
located loads remain responsible for costs associated with their interconnection to the 
grid, and that they receive comparable treatment to other resources connecting to the 
grid.61   
Principle 8 is that load and co-located loads should be fully responsible for the 
network upgrades associated with their interconnection, and FERC and DOE specifically 
seek comment on whether network upgrade costs can be offset through a crediting 
mechanism over time.  
 
61 DOE ANOPR at PP 25-29. 

--- PAGE 31 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
31 
 
Principle 9 is that load and co-located loads should have an equivalent option to 
build network upgrades as interconnecting generators.  
Principle 10 requires that when generating facilities seek to serve new large loads 
rather than meet existing demand, a study must evaluate any network upgrades necessary 
to maintain reliability. Principle 10 requires that the generator fund network upgrades that 
the study finds necessary, and that the generator may suspend service to existing demand 
only after the upgrades are complete. The ANOPR seeks comment on whether the study 
should address resource adequacy.  
Principle 11 requires utilities serving load and co-located loads to be responsible 
for transmission service based on the facilities’ withdrawal rights.  
Principle 12 requires utilities serving large load and co-located loads to be 
responsible for ancillary services based on peak demand. 
2. 
Comments   
These principles are generally consistent with the rule that costs must be allocated 
roughly commensurate with benefits and will help to protect against unreasonably 
shifting costs. As such, PIOs broadly support these principles, subject to the comments 
below.  
As FERC crafts a rule regarding the interconnection of large or co-located loads, 
the FPA’s fundamental cost-allocation precepts should be the guiding star. Under those 
precepts, “all rates must reflect to some degree the costs actually caused by the customer 

--- PAGE 32 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
32 
 
who must pay them.”62 Where an entity “benefits from the costs of new facilities, it may 
be said to have ‘caused’ a part of the facilities.”63 This principle prevents shifting costs to 
ratepayers who “derive no benefits, or benefits that are trivial in relation to the costs 
sought to be shifted.”64 
Under these fundamental cost-allocation principles, FERC’s rule must ensure the 
just and reasonable allocation of the costs of network upgrades and transmission costs. 
Any rule that FERC issues in this docket must ensure that new large loads or co-located 
loads bear responsibility for the costs they cause by interconnecting to the grid. Similarly, 
the rule must prevent the shifting of costs caused by large load interconnections onto 
other consumers who receive no benefits, or trivial benefits, from the network upgrades 
required to serve the interconnecting large loads. To the extent that current tariffs lack 
mechanisms to identify the beneficiaries of network upgrades, FERC should require 
updates to existing tariffs to guarantee that costs can be allocated in a just and reasonable 
manner.  
a. Comments on Principle 8  
Principle 8—that “load and [co-located loads] should be responsible for 100% of 
the network upgrades that they are assigned through the interconnection studies”—is 
generally consistent with the FPA’s cost-allocation principles. Where large load 
interconnections require network upgrades, the large loads actually cause the costs to be 
incurred and must be responsible for those costs. Moreover, new large loads or co-located 
 
62 Ill. Com. Comm’n v. FERC, 576 F.3d 470, 476 (7th Cir. 2009). 
63 Id. 
64 Id. 

--- PAGE 33 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
33 
 
loads are the sole beneficiaries of the network upgrades required for their 
interconnection; neither the new large loads nor the network upgrades required to serve 
them provide significant benefits to the broader grid or other ratepayers. For example, 
data from the PJM region show that transmission upgrades driven by data center loads 
have not led to system benefits, but rather only provide the benefit of allowing the large 
load to operate:65  
Project / Location 
Scope / Cost 
Purpose / 
Trigger 
Why It Doesn’t 
Benefit the Whole 
System 
Planning Process 
Who Pays 
Source 
Wishing Star 
Substation – 
Loudoun County, 
VA 
$627.6M – New 
500/230 kV 
substation with tie-
ins to Mosby and 
Brambleton lines 
7.5 GW of 
projected load 
growth in 'Data 
Center Alley' 
Tailored to serve 
hyperscaler 
reliability needs; no 
evidence of CETL 
or transfer capacity 
benefit 
RTEP – 2022 
Window 3 
Dominion 
Zone 
2022 PJM RTEP 
Report, p. 61  
Marley Neck 115 
kV Substation – 
BGE Zone 
$107.6M – 
Substation upgrade 
with 230/115 kV 
transformers 
Overloads at 
seven 
Baltimore-area 
facilities 
PJM explicitly 
states 'no broader 
system benefits' 
RTEP – 2024 
Window 1 
(Baseline Project 
b3906) 
BGE Zone 
(Baseline) 
2024 RTEP Window 
1 Report, Proposal 
295 
Beaumeade 
STATCOM – 
Northern Virginia 
300 MVAR Static 
Synchronous 
Compensator at 
Beaumeade 
Substation 
Reactive power 
support for 
clustered 
datacenter load 
Voltage-only fix; 
does not improve 
bulk power flow or 
transfer capability 
RTEP – 2023 
Baseline 
Dominion 
Zone 
2023 PJM TEAC 
Whitepaper, p. 12 
Kraken Loop – 
Fredericksburg 
Corridor 
$704M – 500 kV 
loop and new 
Kraken substation; 
230 kV upgrades 
deferred 
Local overloads 
and data center-
driven load 
growth near 
North Anna 
Local components 
are deferred to M-3 
process; no broader 
regional impact 
RTEP – 2024 
Window 3 
(Revised Proposal 
967) 
Dominion (for 
now); 230 kV 
deferred to M-
3 
2024 RTEP Window 
3 Summary, Proposal 
967 
Talen–Amazon Co-
Located Load – 
Susquehanna 
Nuclear 
Up to 960 MW 
behind-the-meter 
load; capped at 480 
MW to avoid 
violations 
Co-located load 
increase at 
nuclear plant 
PJM confirmed 
upgrades would be 
triggered above 480 
MW, with no 
broader system 
benefit 
FERC 
Interconnection 
Filing – ER24-
2172 
Unknown (but 
customer 
would trigger 
upgrades >480 
MW) 
FERC Order ER24-
2172 
 
Because other ratepayers receive no benefits, or trivial benefits, from the network 
upgrades required to interconnect new large loads or co-located loads, it would be 
 
65 See Comments of Public Interest Organizations, Docket No. EL25-49, at 13 (Apr. 23, 2025), Accession 
No. 20250423-5243. 

--- PAGE 34 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
34 
 
inconsistent with cost-allocation principles to allow the costs of those network upgrades 
to be shifted to other ratepayers. Hence, it is appropriate for the new large loads or co-
located loads to bear 100% of the cost of the network upgrades required for their 
interconnection.  
To effectuate this principle, FERC must ensure that load interconnection studies 
are sufficiently rigorous and transparent to identify the beneficiaries of network upgrades 
and enable cost-allocation that is roughly commensurate with the benefits. For example, 
current processes in the PJM region fail to rigorously assess the costs and beneficiaries of 
network upgrades to serve new large loads.66 FERC needs to ensure that such processes 
are sufficiently rigorous and transparent. 
FERC should not adopt a default crediting mechanism to offset the costs of 
network upgrades required for large load interconnection. Again, because large loads are 
the sole or primary beneficiaries of the network upgrades required for their 
interconnection, it is appropriate for them to bear 100% of the costs of those upgrades. To 
the extent that particular network upgrades could theoretically provide broader benefits to 
other ratepayers, the relevant transmission-owning utility should bear the burden of 
proposing a specific cost-allocation variation for that particular facility. To make such an 
individualized proposal, the relevant transmission-owning utility should be required to 
prove the degree to which the network upgrade would provide benefits to other 
ratepayers, and to specify what group of ratepayers would receive those benefits. In such 
 
66 See Comments of Public Interest Organizations, Docket No. EL25-49, at 7–24 (Apr. 23, 2025), 
Accession No. 20250423-5243 (explaining how PJM’s “necessary study process” and “do-no-harm” studies fail to 
gather sufficient information to enable a just and reasonable allocation of costs). 

--- PAGE 35 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
35 
 
limited circumstances, a crediting mechanism might be a just and reasonable component 
of a facility-specific cost-allocation proposal.  
b. Comments on Principle 9 
Principle 9, which would provide large loads and co-located loads an option to 
build network upgrades equivalent to the option held by interconnecting generators, 
appears just and reasonable and consistent with cost-allocation principles to the same 
degree as equivalent provisions governing generator interconnection. Extending an 
equivalent option to build for interconnecting large loads and co-located loads could also 
help avoid arguments that FERC’s rule treats loads in an unduly discriminatory manner.67 
Ultimately, this principle does not appear to shift costs of large load interconnections in a 
manner inconsistent with cost-allocation principles.  
c. Comments on Principle 10  
PIOs do not believe that the Commission should adopt Principle 10.  Many regions 
of the country are currently experiencing resource adequacy or reliability challenges. 
Generation that has been on the system and serving existing load should not be allowed 
to be essentially removed from the grid to serve a single customer.  In many cases, costs 
of these facilities – or the network upgrades needed to interconnect them initially – have 
been paid for by existing customers.  FERC should not allow any single customer to then 
claim either full or partial rights to the existing generation. Principle 10 considers the 
 
67 Such arguments may lack merit, because interconnecting large loads are not entirely similarly situated to 
interconnecting generators. Interconnecting generators provide significant benefits to the grid, including by 
providing resource adequacy and competition in the wholesale markets, whereas interconnecting large loads do not. 
Nevertheless, there may be value to avoiding disputes about purportedly undue discrimination. 

--- PAGE 36 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
36 
 
circumstance in which “an existing generation facility seeks to enter a partial suspension 
to serve a new load at the same location.”68 However, the suspension of existing 
generation to serve new large loads is inconsistent with cost-causation principles and 
unjust and unreasonable because this practice shifts costs associated with maintaining 
resource adequacy onto other consumers, as well as increasing reliability risks for 
existing ratepayers.  
When an existing generator suspends its service to existing load in order to instead 
serve a new load, that suspension will increase costs associated with maintaining resource 
adequacy for other consumers. In regions without an organized capacity market, such a 
suspension may increase the frequency or intensity of scarcity pricing in energy markets. 
In regions with organized capacity markets, such a suspension reduces the available 
supply of capacity, which will in turn increase capacity costs. In either case, the effects of 
shifting these costs to existing consumers may be profound. For example, in PJM, where 
the capacity market is currently experiencing tight conditions, even seemingly small 
reductions in the supply of capacity can impose billions of dollars in increased costs.69 
While suspending service to the broader market to serve an interconnecting large load 
may be economically attractive for the particular generator and the new large load, the 
 
68 DOE ANOPR at P 27. 
69  See  Md. Office of People’s Counsel, Bill and Rate Impacts of PJM’s 2025/2026 Capacity Market 
Results & Reliability Must-Run Units in Maryland, at 8 (Aug. 2024) (“Synapse Report”), 
https://opc.maryland.gov/Portals/0/Files/Publications/RMR%20Bill%20and%20Rates%20Impact%20Report_2024-
08-14%20Final.pdf?ver=V9hZfyTmjLeNVt2Dg3cTgw%3d%3d; Monitoring Analytics, Analysis of the 2025/2026 
RPM Base Residual Auction Part A, at 2 (Sept. 20, 2024) (“IMM Analysis of 2025/2026 Auction”), 
https://www.monitoringanalytics.com/reports/Reports/2024/IMM_Analysis_of_the_20252026_RPM_Base_Residua
l_Auction_Part_A_20240920.pdf (documenting how the exclusion of only roughly 500 MW of generation from the 
capacity market inflated capacity market clearing prices by between $4 billion and $5 billion).  

--- PAGE 37 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
37 
 
resulting cost shifts to other consumers are unjust and unreasonable and inconsistent with 
cost-causation principles because other consumers receive no benefits from the 
generator’s suspension or the large load’s interconnection.  
These problems may be especially acute in states where traditional utilities own 
generation. In those states, the inclusion of generation in the utilities’ rate base means that 
other consumers have already paid for the construction and maintenance of the existing 
generation; hence, the removal of the benefits for which those consumers have already 
paid exacerbates the problem of increased costs of paying for resource adequacy moving 
forward.  
Suspending an existing generator to serve new loads also unjustly and 
unreasonably imposes reliability risks on other consumers. Where existing generation is 
necessary to maintain resource adequacy, its suspension increases the possibility that 
supply will be insufficient to meet demand, potentially resulting in disruptions of electric 
service. It is unjust and unreasonable to force ordinary ratepayers to bear an increased 
risk of blackouts simply to facilitate new large loads buying up existing capacity.  
Principle 10 only partially mitigates these concerns by requiring “a system support 
resource (SSR)/reliability must run (RMR) type study.” Although allowing the 
suspension of existing generation to serve new large loads would not be just and 
reasonable, Principle 10 works to mitigate the reliability harms from that approach by: (1) 
requiring a study to assess a suspension’s reliability impacts, (2) requiring the suspending 
generator to pay the full cost of any network upgrades needed to maintain reliability, and 
(3) allowing suspension only after those network upgrades are in place. That approach 

--- PAGE 38 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
38 
 
mitigates the risk that a sudden suspension of existing generation could cause immediate 
reliability risks. However, that approach does not protect existing consumers against the 
increased costs associated with the existing generator’s suspension.  
Ultimately, Principle 10 could allow the suspension of generators in a manner that 
unjustly and unreasonably imposes additional costs and risks on existing consumers, and 
Principle 10 would only partially mitigate those adverse impacts. For these reasons, 
FERC should instead establish a default rule that does not permit the suspension of 
existing generation to serve new large loads. However, to the extent that FERC does 
permit the suspension of existing generation to serve new large loads, Principle 10 offers 
a good first step to mitigate adverse reliability impacts from this approach. FERC should 
also supplement Principle 10 by adopting additional measures to safeguard existing 
consumers against increased costs caused by the suspension of existing generation.  
d. Comments on Principle 11 
FERC should clarify Principle 11 to avoid ambiguity. As drafted, Principle 11 does 
not make entirely clear whether it intends to describe the responsibility of transmission-
owning utilities, interconnecting large loads, or both. The intent appears to be to limit the 
amount of transmission service that transmission-owning utilities must provide, and that 
interconnecting large loads must purchase, based on the interconnecting large load or co-
located loads’ withdrawal rights. Hence, the principle appears to apply to both 
transmission-owning utilities and interconnecting large loads.  
Under Principle 11, FERC can reasonably limit the transmission service that 
transmission-owning utilities must provide, and that interconnecting large loads or co-

--- PAGE 39 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
39 
 
located loads must purchase, only in concert with the ideas expressed in Principle 6. 
Principle 6 requires co-located loads to “install the system protection facilities necessary 
to prevent unauthorized injections or withdrawals that exceed the respective rights.”70 
Similar system protection facilities should be required in order to limit the physical 
ability of new large loads or co-located loads to utilize more transmission service than 
their withdrawal or injection rights allow. Without such controls, Principle 11 could 
unreasonably limit the study and buildout of the transmission grid and risk reliability 
problems that could result if new large loads or co-located loads withdraw or inject more 
energy than their rights allow. However, if new large loads and co-located loads are 
properly controlled, then limiting the responsibility of transmission-owning utilities to 
provide transmission service, and limiting the responsibility of new large loads or co-
located loads to purchase transmission service, based on the new large load or co-located 
loads’ withdrawal rights may be appropriate.  
e. Comments on Principle 12  
FERC should also clarify Principle 12. As currently drafted, Principle 12 states 
that “utilities serving large loads, including those at [co-located loads], should be 
responsible for ancillary services.”71 FERC should make clear that this principle governs 
utilities’ responsibility to procure ancillary services. In particular, this principle should 
clarify that utilities’ procurement of ancillary services should be based on peak demand 
 
70 DOE ANOPR at P 23. 
71 DOE ANOPR at P 29. 

--- PAGE 40 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
40 
 
rather than being reduced by the degree to which co-located generation may reduce net 
peak demand by offsetting some of the demand of a new large load.   
We tentatively agree with the principle that utilities’ procurement of ancillary 
services should be based on total peak demand, and not reduced by expected 
contributions from generation co-located with large loads. In general, we believe that 
calculating utilities’ needs for ancillary services based on peak demand should be more 
accurate than reducing the need for ancillary services based on the expected performance 
of co-located generation. Similarly, to the extent co-located generation does not reduce 
the overall need for utilities to procure ancillary services (meaning that co-located 
generation’s potential contributions of ancillary services are not accounted for through 
such a reduction), it appears reasonable to allow those co-located generation resources to 
offer ancillary services into the relevant markets.  
However, our support for Principle 12 is tentative for two reasons. First, co-
located generation may have limited ability to provide ancillary services, due to limits 
imposed by control technologies that limit energy withdrawals or injections, or due to 
contractual limits on withdrawals or injections.  
More fundamentally, calculating utilities’ requirements to procure ancillary 
services based on peak demand could result in shifting the costs of ancillary services 
caused by the addition of large loads to existing consumers. To the extent that new large 
loads increase the overall demand for ancillary services, it is essential that the new large 
loads pay their fair share for such services. Ancillary services, including blackstart 
services and others, are crucial to the reliable operation of new large loads. And because 

--- PAGE 41 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
41 
 
even co-located loads will rely on such ancillary services, it is essential that they pay their 
fair share.72 FERC should evaluate what mechanisms within its jurisdiction can ensure 
that new large loads pay their fair share for ancillary services commensurate with the 
degree to which new large loads cause the need for such services. To the extent FERC 
concludes that the allocation of the increased cost of ancillary services is not within its 
jurisdiction, but is instead a matter that states must regulate as part of retail rates, FERC 
should at least ensure that the rules within FERC’s jurisdiction provide as much 
transparency as possible regarding the degree to which different types of load contribute 
to the need for ancillary services, so that states will be well-equipped with the necessary 
information to ensure just and reasonable cost allocation at the retail level. 
E. Reliability Reviews  
1. 
DOE NOPR: Principle 14 
Principle 14 would require utilities serving large loads to meet all applicable 
NERC reliability standards and Open Access Transmission Tariff (OATT) provisions.  It 
also states that NERC should review its reliability standards to determine if new 
registration categories or new or modified reliability standards are required to ensure 
reliability of the bulk-power system. 
2. 
Comments  
 
72 See, e.g., Comments of the Union of Concerned Scientists, Docket No. EL25-49-000, (Apr. 10, 2025), 
Accession No. 20250411-5520. 

--- PAGE 42 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
42 
 
Jim Robb, President and Chief Executive Officer of NERC, said it best: “There is 
existing evidence that large loads impact BPS reliability.”73 Any FERC rulemaking on 
this issue must ensure reliability.  Thus, we agree with the principle that utilities must 
continue to meet mandatory reliability standards. We also agree that NERC should take a 
look at its reliability standards and registration to determine if changes are warranted. 
However, we note that the DOE Proposal missed one critical principle on reliability – it 
does not make clear that large loads must also meet any applicable reliability standards 
that may apply to them in the future.  FERC should be sure to remedy this oversight. 
As noted above, section 215 of the FPA gives FERC jurisdiction over large loads 
as users of the bulk-power system.74  NERC has set up a Large Load Task Force “to 
better understand the reliability impact(s) of emerging large loads … and their impact on 
the bulk power system.”75 Mr. Robb has indicated that in the first quarter of 2026, NERC 
will develop additional findings, guidance, and steps forward to account for the BPS 
reliability related needs associated with large load.   
While NERC has indicated that it may need to “enhance” its existing reliability 
standards, it should also assess whether it should register large loads as users of the bulk-
power system and develop new reliability standards.  NERC and its Large Load Task 
Force are a useful forum to do this work, but it should ensure that it moves swiftly. If 
 
73 Pre-Conference Comments of the North American Electric Reliability Corporation, 2025 Reliability 
Technical Conference, Docket No. AD25-8-000 at 15 (October 21, 2025). 
74 See infra section c. See also 16 U.S.C. § 824o(b)(1).  
75 NERC Large Loads Task Force (LLTF), https://www.nerc.com/comm/RSTC/Pages/LLTF.aspx.  

--- PAGE 43 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
43 
 
necessary, FERC could order NERC to submit new or modified reliability standards to 
FERC to address large loads.76  
F. Implementation Plans  
1. 
DOE NOPR: Principle 13 
Under Principle 13 there must be a plan to implement any reforms that FERC 
adopts. DOE seeks comment on appropriate transition plans, including the treatment of 
large load interconnections that are already being studied for interconnection. 
2. 
Comments 
FERC should take care to adopt rules that do not disrupt existing processes – 
either generator or large load interconnections.  We agree that FERC must create clear 
guidance for large load interconnections already under interconnection assessment and 
those that will soon join the study queue. FERC needs to clarify how far along in the 
interconnection study process a new large load must be in order to be exempt from 
FERC’s new standards, and/or if existing projects will need to be restudied to comply 
with FERC’s new standards. FERC also needs to clarify in its transition plans how long 
of a runway utilities will have for compliance so that they can anticipate which portfolio 
of interconnection requests will need to apply any new FERC standards. Finally, FERC 
should clarify in its transition plans whether and how FERC will require clusters to be 
formed for interconnection study.  
G. Other Issues  
1. 
Comments 
 
76 16 U.S.C. § 824o(d)(5). 

--- PAGE 44 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
44 
 
FERC may need to consider issues not addressed on the DOE ANOPR.  For 
example, the DOE Proposal does not discuss how FERC’s anti-market manipulation 
authority related to the purchase or sale or transmission of electricity under Section 222 
of the FPA might apply to large loads.  For example, co-location arrangements involving 
existing generators can heighten the concern with deficiencies in market power 
mitigation rules by exacerbating certain market participants’ incentives to abuse market 
power and engage in market manipulation. A market participant can exercise market 
power or engage in market manipulation by withholding supply.77 The incentive to 
withhold supply in energy markets grows as the portions of the supply curve used to meet 
demand are more inelastic.78 This is because a given amount of withheld supply will tend 
to have a greater impact on price as that portion of the supply curve becomes more 
inelastic. Co-location arrangements that allow load to co-locate with existing generators 
have the potential to exacerbate the incentive to withhold supply by changing the 
generators on which the market relies to meet demand. If existing generators’ co-location 
causes the market operator to more frequently rely on more inelastic portions of the 
supply curve to meet demand, then market participants’ incentive to withhold supply is 
greater.79 
 Indeed, FERC has already had to exercise elements of this authority in various 
proceedings involving large load customers.80 In particular, large loads have access to 
 
77 See, e.g., Pub. Citizen v. FERC, 7 F.4th 1177, 1198 (D.C. Cir. 2021); FPA Section 203 Suppl. Pol’y 
Statement, 120 FERC ¶ 61,060, at PP 60, 65 (2007). 
78 See, e.g., Commonwealth Edison Co., 91 FERC ¶ 61,036, at 61,133 & 61,133 n.42 (2000). 
79 See also PIOs Comments PIO Comments (Docket No. EL25-49-000) at 32-33. 
80 See FERC Docket Nos. ER24-2172-000 / ER24-2172-001.  

--- PAGE 45 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
45 
 
behind-the-meter generation, which they may be able to use to manipulate market pricing 
to their advantage. FERC must determine whether changes to its market power and/or 
market manipulation rules – or the tariff provisions dealing with market power – are 
necessary to provide the guardrails needed to prevent abuses of market power or market 
manipulation.81 
IV. 
Conclusion 
We appreciate the opportunity to comment on the principles outlined in the DOE 
ANOPR.  The DOE Proposal is a good start at setting principles for how FERC can 
regulate the interconnection of large loads, but there are many details to be worked out. In 
doing so, FERC must follow the guiding principle that new large loads should not be 
permitted to harm affordability or reliability for existing consumers. New large loads 
should be responsible for the costs they cause, they should not be allowed to imperil 
reliability for other consumers, and FERC cannot allow utilities to unduly preference 
large load customers over other types of customers. We look forward to seeing FERC’s 
proposal on these matters.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
81 See Practical Guidance and Considerations for Large Load Interconnections at 31 Gridlab (May 2025). 

--- PAGE 46 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
46 
 
Respectfully submitted this 21st day of November, 2025,  
/s/ Christy Walsh 
Christy Walsh 
Senior Attorney and Director of Federal 
Energy Markets 
Sustainable FERC Project  
1152 15th St NW #300 
Washington, DC 20005 
202-909-6842 
cwalsh@nrdc.org  
 
 
/s/ Jackson Morris 
Jackson Morris  
Director, State Power Sector 
Natural Resources Defense Council  
40 W 20th St 11th Floor 
New York, NY 10011 
212-727-4468 
jmorris@nrdc.org 
 
 
 
/s/ Danielle C. Fidler  
Danielle Fidler, Senior Attorney  
Clean Air Task Force, Inc.  
114 State Street, 6th Floor  
Boston MA 02109  
Dfidler@catf.us  
 
/s/ Elizabeth R. Marx, Esquire 
/s/Patrick M. Cicero 
Elizabeth R. Marx, Esquire 
Patrick M. Cicero, Esquire 
Counsel for Coalition for Affordable 
Utility Services and Energy Efficiency in 
Pennsylvania 
Pennsylvania Utility Law Project 
118 Locust Street 
Harrisburg, PA 17101 
717-236-9486, Ext. 204 
emarx@pautilitylawproject.org 
pcicero@pautilitylawproject.org 
 
 
/s/ Nick Lawton 
Nick Lawton, Senior Attorney, Clean 
Energy Program 
Christine Powell, Deputy Managing 
Attorney, Clean Energy Program (FERC)  
Aaliyah Adkins, Associate Attorney, Clean 
Energy Program 
Earthjustice 
1001 G Street, NW Suite 1000 
Washington, DC 20001 
202-780-4835 
nlawton@earthjustice.org 
cpowell@earthjustice.org 
aadkins@earthjustice.org 
 
 
/s/ Ted Kelly  
Ted Kelly 
Director and Lead Counsel, US Clean 
Energy  
Veronica Ung-Kono Fellow, US Clean 
Energy  
Environmental Defense Fund  
555 12th Street NW, Ste 400 Washington, 
DC 20004  
tekelly@edf.org  
vungkono@edf.org  
  
 
 

--- PAGE 47 ---
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
47 
 
 
/s/Nick Fitzmaurice 
Nick Fitzmaurice 
Energy Transition Engineer 
Montana Environmental Information 
Center 
PO Box 1184, Helena, MT 59624 
406-443-2520 x 007 
nfitzmaurice@meic.org 
 
/s/Gregory E. Wannier 
Gregory E. Wannier, Senior Attorney 
Justin Vickers, Senior Attorney 
Sierra Club Environmental Law Program 
2101 Webster St., Suite 1300 
Oakland, CA 94612 
415-977-5646  
greg.wannier@sierraclub.org 
justin.vickers@sierraclub.org  
 
 
 
/s/Nick Guidi 
Nick Guidi 
Senior Attorney 
Southern Environmental Law Center 
122 C Street NW, Suite 325 
Washington, DC 20001 
202-573-8136 
nguidi@selc.org  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
I hereby certify that the foregoing has been served in accordance with 18 C.F.R. § 
385.2010 upon each party designated in the official service list compiled by the Secretary 
in this proceeding, by email. 
/s/ Christy Walsh  
Senior Attorney and Director of Federal  
Energy Markets 
Natural Resources Defense Council, 
Sustainable FERC Project 
1152 15th St NW #300 
Washington, DC 20005 
202-909-6842 
cwalsh@nrdc.org 
