--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
SUPPLEMENTAL COMMENTS OF 
TRANSMISSION ACCESS POLICY STUDY GROUP 
The Transmission Access Policy Study Group (“TAPS”), an association of 
transmission-dependent utilities (“TDUs”) in thirty-nine states promoting open and non-
discriminatory transmission access, respectfully submits these supplemental comments 
on the Secretary of Energy’s proposed Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking 
(“ANOPR”)1 under consideration by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (the 
“Commission”). While TAPS’s opening comments addressed a broad range of important 
issues raised in the ANOPR,2 these Supplemental Comments focus on two critical issues 
raised in recent supplemental comments.  
First, we address the filing submitted by the National Association of Regulatory 
Commissioners (“NARUC”),3 which argues that no Commission action is needed in light 
of recent actions taken by some (but not all) states regarding some (but not all) issues 
related to large load interconnections. While TAPS agrees that it is important that the 
Commission respect jurisdictional boundaries, action by this Commission is required to 
 
1 Secretary of Energy, Ensuring the Timely and Orderly Interconnection of Large Loads, Advanced Notice 
of Proposed Rulemaking (released Oct. 23, 2023), eLibrary No. 20251027-4001 (“ANOPR”).  
2 Comments of Transmission Access Policy Study Group (Nov. 21, 2025), eLibrary No. 20251121-5346 
(“TAPS Comments” or “TAPS opening comments”).  
3 Supplemental Comments of National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners (Apr. 13, 2026), 
eLibrary No. 20260413-5278 (“NARUC Supplemental Comments”).  

--- PAGE 2 ---
- 2 - 
 
address the clear and direct impact that large load4 interconnections have on transmission 
rates within the Commission’s exclusive jurisdiction. The Commission is statutorily 
obligated to ensure just, reasonable, and not unduly discriminatory transmission rates; 
only the Commission can protect other wholesale transmission customers from the risks 
of significant large load-driven cost shifting and stranded costs that would otherwise 
occur through Commission-jurisdictional rates.  
Second, we address the Supplemental Comments and attached whitepaper 
submitted by WIRES,5 which claim that the Commission’s “and” pricing policy must 
fully exempt large loads from ongoing transmission charges if the Commission initially 
holds them responsible for the costs of network upgrades they cause. That claim—which 
the WIRES whitepaper admits fails to consider the significant stranded cost risk posed by 
large loads—is wrong. The Commission is free to modify its decades-old “and” pricing 
policy to ensure just and reasonable transmission rates in light of the new and unique 
challenges posed by large load interconnections. Alternatively, a specially designed 
mechanism that permits large loads to receive credits to offset their upfront network 
upgrade cost responsibility, provided that they sustain over time the level of transmission 
service demand for which they were planned, can help protect other customers while 
avoiding concerns about “and” pricing.   
 
4 In our opening comments, TAPS used the term “Qualifying Large Loads” to cover a large, individual 
retail customer seeking to interconnect directly to the transmission system and meeting other to-be-
determined qualifications. As the supplemental comments to which we are responding here do not use that 
terminology, our supplemental comments use “large loads” to refer to such loads to avoid confusion. 
5 Supplemental Comments of WIRES (Mar. 30, 2026), eLibrary No. 20260330-5308 (“WIRES 
Supplemental Comments”).  

--- PAGE 3 ---
- 3 - 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL COMMENTS 
I. 
COMMISSION ACTION IS NEEDED BECAUSE ONLY THIS 
COMMISSION CAN ENSURE JUST, REASONABLE, AND NOT 
UNDULY DISCRIMINATORY TRANSMISSION RATES. 
NARUC claims that “no action in the ANOPR is necessary to enable state 
commission[s] to cost-allocate transmission between end-use customers,” and that 
therefore there is “no regulatory gap” that requires Commission action.6 While TAPS 
agrees that the Commission should not intrude on matters subject to state and local 
jurisdiction,7 state authority over retail matters in no way eliminates the need for the 
Commission to take decisive action on the important issues raised in the ANOPR that fall 
squarely within the Commission’s exclusive jurisdiction.  
As NARUC notes, state regulators have authority to “determine the cost 
allocation of transmission costs among retail ratepayers.”8 But that authority does not 
extend to interstate transmission rates. State regulators thus cannot address what should 
be included in the wholesale transmission revenue requirement or the allocation of 
transmission costs among wholesale transmission customers. That authority belongs 
solely to this Commission.  
There is no question that the huge increase in new and upgraded transmission 
facilities needed to serve large load interconnections have a direct and significant impact 
on Commission-jurisdictional transmission rates. For instance, some Commission-
jurisdictional transmission costs are allocated among Load Serving Entities (“LSEs”) 
based on their relative load ratio shares in the transmission zone, which may span 
 
6 NARUC Supplemental Comments at 6. 
7 TAPS Comments at 11. 
8 NARUC Supplemental Comments at 6 (emphasis added).  

--- PAGE 4 ---
- 4 - 
 
multiple states. If one of those LSEs has a new large load customer, the costs of network 
upgrades needed to serve that new load would be included in the transmission rates 
allocated among all those LSEs. If that large load fails to achieve and sustain demand at 
the level for which these network upgrades were built, the costs of the upgrades will be 
allocated based on load ratio shares that do not reflect the addition of a large load (whose 
demand projections triggered the upgrades) to the peak load of the LSE serving that large 
load. As a result, the other LSEs in the zone—and ultimately their retail customers—
would be forced to bear significant stranded costs caused by that large load.  
Even if the state with retail regulatory authority over the utility serving the large 
load imposes retail-level protections against the large load failing to materialize and 
sustain the service level for which a major network upgrade was planned, other wholesale 
transmission customers do not necessarily get the benefit of those protections. That state 
cannot regulate the Commission-jurisdictional transmission rates those other wholesale 
transmission customers pay. Action needs to be taken by this Commission to ensure that 
all customers paying transmission rates under the Commission’s exclusive jurisdiction 
are adequately protected. Indeed, the Commission is obligated to address this problem to 
fulfill its mandate under the Federal Power Act to ensure just, reasonable, and not unduly 
discriminatory transmission rates.9 
The examples of state actions highlighted by NARUC do not obviate the need for 
Commission action with respect to rates within its jurisdiction. Many of the examples 
focus on the allocation of costs among classes of retail customers.10 While they can have 
 
9 16 U.S.C. §§ 824d, 824e.  
10 For instance, NARUC explains that the Georgia Public Service Commission’s “mission” is “to prevent 
new data centers from shifting costs to residential customers.” NARUC Supplemental Comments at 3. 
Likewise, it explains that the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio approved a new retail tariff for AEP 

--- PAGE 5 ---
- 5 - 
 
value (e.g., deterring the planning and construction of network upgrades for speculative 
data centers), those actions do not address stranded costs and the cost shifting that occurs 
through Commission-jurisdictional transmission rates. Other of NARUC’s examples 
expressly acknowledge this Commission’s jurisdiction over transmission rates and 
contemplate the need for additional action by this Commission. For example, the Illinois 
Commerce Commission’s March 2026 order requires large loads to enter a Transmission 
Service Agreement, but imposes as a condition for commencing retail service that the 
TSA be filed with this Commission.11 Far from showing that state action alone can solve 
the full range of issues raised by large load interconnections, these examples confirm this 
Commission’s essential role to ensure just, reasonable, and not unduly discriminatory or 
preferential transmission rates.  
Holding large loads responsible for the costs of network upgrades they cause, as 
contemplated in the ANOPR,12 is the most protective of other wholesale transmission 
customers paying Commission-jurisdictional rates.13 This approach allows this 
Commission to fulfill its mandate under the Federal Power Act without intruding on 
matters subject to state jurisdiction. It does not affect state authority over distribution and 
 
Ohio intended to “prevent potential stranded asset costs from being passed to other retail ratepayers.” Id. 
But the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio made clear that it was not addressing issues related to 
wholesale transmission customers. In re Application of Ohio Power Co. for New Tariffs Related to Data 
Ctrs. & Mobile Data Ctrs., No. 24-508-EL-ATA, Order P 132 (Pub. Utils. Comm’n of Ohio July 9, 2025), 
https://dis.puc.state.oh.us/ViewImage.aspx?CMID=A1001001A25G09B43531I00509 (finding concerns 
about “wholesale impacts that could materialize” to be “statutorily outside of this Commission’s intrastate 
purview”). 
11 Filing Proposing Revisions to Rider Distrib. Sys. Extensions, Nos. 25-0677 and 25-0679, Order at 111 
(Ill. Com. Comm’n Mar. 19, 2026), https://icc.illinois.gov/docket/P2025-
0679/documents/377910/files/662669.pdf. It also specifies that “[i]f there is a revenue shortfall from the 
[large load customer] in any year, the delta will be recovered under the TSA with that [large load customer] 
and credited to the transmission revenue requirement borne by transmission customers in the ComEd 
zone.” Id.  
12 ANOPR P 25.  
13 See TAPS Comments at 22. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
- 6 - 
 
generation, and it leaves states the authority to set retail rates and determine how an 
LSE’s share of FERC-jurisdictional transmission costs will be allocated among its retail 
customers, including the large load.  
Importantly, this approach is consistent with pledges made by many data 
centers,14 and provides them with the consistent rules they need to deploy quickly.15 
Consistency is also important to protect wholesale transmission customers against 
bearing unreasonable data center-driven costs and cost shifts. Particularly in transmission 
zones spanning multiple states, holding large loads responsible for the network upgrade 
costs they cause avoids the potential for cost-shifting among states. Consistent large load 
cost responsibility requirements would also allow the Commission to ensure just and 
reasonable rates in a manner that is quick and efficient compared to a piecemeal 
approach.  
While TAPS urges the Commission to hold large loads responsible for the 
network upgrade costs they cause, Commission action is still needed to the extent it does 
not do so. At minimum, the Commission must ensure that the results of protective 
measures adopted at the retail level (e.g., minimum demand charges, minimum contract 
terms, exit fees, etc.) are properly reflected in transmission rates.16 For example, if a 
public utility recovers transmission costs from a large load customer under retail 
minimum demand charge requirements, those payments must be reflected in its 
transmission revenue requirement used for Commission-jurisdictional rates. Such 
 
14 Ratepayer Protection Pledge, The White House (Mar. 4, 2026), 
https://www.whitehouse.gov/releases/2026/03/ratepayer-protection-pledge/.  
15 See Supplemental Comments of Oracle America, Inc. at 4 (May 1, 2026), eLibrary No. 20260501-5026 
(“Patchwork state regulation . . . complicates efforts to implement and integrate Oracle’s beneficial 
investments.”). 
16 See TAPS Comments at 24-27 (discussing this alternative in more detail).  

--- PAGE 7 ---
- 7 - 
 
treatment is necessary to ensure that all other customers—including other wholesale 
transmission customers—are protected against the stranded cost risks caused by new 
large loads and thus are shielded from unjust, unreasonable, and unduly discriminatory 
transmission rates. As certain public utilities that have filed data center agreements with 
the Commission have recognized, this is necessary “to avoid the potential for double 
recovery of Network Upgrade costs.”17 
Although some data center agreements have been filed with the Commission, not 
all public utilities with such agreements have done so.18 If the Commission does not 
require upfront funding of large load-driven network upgrades, it must take action to 
ensure that retail level protections are consistently and properly reflected in Commission-
jurisdictional transmission rates in all instances.  
Likewise, there must be meaningful review to ensure that the level of protection 
provided under contracts with data centers is sufficient to ensure just and reasonable 
transmission rates. Given the inherent and significant impact of large load-driven network 
upgrades on other transmission customers who are not parties to the data center 
agreements, TAPS is concerned that the Mobile-Sierra presumption of reasonableness 
 
17 AES Ohio, Transmission Customer New or Upgraded Service Construction Service Agreement, 
Transmittal Letter at 9 n.18, The Dayton Power & Light Co., Docket No. ER25-192 (Oct. 23, 2024), 
eLibrary No. 20241023-5154.  See also PECO, Transmission Security Agreement between PECO Energy 
Company and Amazon Data Services, Inc., Transmittal Letter at 11 n.48, PECO Energy Co., Docket No. 
ER25-3492 (Sep. 23, 2025), eLibrary No. 20250923-5131 (“In order to avoid the potential for double 
recovery of the costs of transmission facilities used to provide delivery services to Amazon, PECO agrees 
that, if these costs are rolled into its transmission rates under Attachment H-7 of the PJM Tariff and if 
Amazon subsequently makes a payment to PECO as a result of a Customer Shortfall Event, PECO will 
appropriately reflect Amazon’s payment in its transmission cost of service under Attachment H-7.”). 
18 For example, NARUC points to the example of AEP Ohio’s new retail data center tariff, but AEP Ohio 
has not filed any agreements with data centers under that retail tariff with this Commission. See NARUC 
Supplemental Comments at 3-4 (describing AEP Ohio’s retail data center tariff); Comments of American 
Electric Power Service Corporation at 5-7 (Nov. 21, 2025), eLibrary No. 20251121-5243 (describing the 
retail data center tariff AEP has implemented in Ohio). 

--- PAGE 8 ---
- 8 - 
 
may not be sufficient.19 But at minimum, to prevent the Mobile-Sierra presumption from 
becoming “a straw man behind which the Commission hides to evade its statutory duty of 
ensuring that the American consumer pays just and reasonable rates,”20 the parties to 
those agreements must clearly identify the impact on other customers before seeking to 
rely on that presumption. A consistent Commission requirement that holds large loads 
responsible for the network upgrade costs they cause, however, would avoid the burdens 
on the Commission and other customers associated with case-by-case review.  
II. 
REQUIRING LARGE LOADS TO BE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
NETWORK UPGRADE COSTS THEY CAUSE NEED NOT LEAD 
TO UNINTENDED COST-SHIFTING. 
The supplemental comments submitted by WIRES, and its attached whitepaper, 
argue that “the ANOPR’s proposal to allocate 100 percent of network upgrade costs to 
large load customers” creates “the potential for unintended cost shifts to retail customers 
under certain implementation scenarios.”21 Although WIRES acknowledges “the 
importance of addressing stranded asset risk,” it does not do so; instead, it “focus[es] 
solely on the cost allocation risk associated with a framework that would solely direct-
assign the cost of network upgrades to large load customers.”22 Because WIRES’ 
 
19 As Commissioner Chang has explained, “reliance on bilaterally-negotiated agreements, particularly ones 
shielded from meaningful Commission review by the Mobile-Sierra presumption, may not be sufficient to 
ensure that customers are protected against unjust cost shifts from new large loads.” Commonwealth Edison 
Co., 194 FERC ¶ 61,184, P 1 (2026) (Chang, Comm’r, concurring). 
20 Id., P 2 (2026) (Swett, Chairman, and LaCerte, Comm’r, concurring). As Chairman Swett and 
Commissioner LaCerte explained, the Mobile-Sierra presumption is not a different standard than the just 
and reasonable standard; rather, it is an application of that same standard applicable to contracts that 
embody certain characteristics. Id. (citing Morgan Stanley Cap. Grp. Inc. v. Pub. Util. Dist. No. 1 of 
Snohomish Cnty., 554 U.S. 527, 530 (2008)). 
21 WIRES Supplemental Comments at 2.  
22 Id., Appendix at 6. Specifically, WIRES analyzes the costs over time of a hypothetical 200 MW large 
load that (1) pays Network Integration Transmission Service for its full 200 MW peak load with no 
payment for network upgrades, (2) pays 100% network upgrades upfront with no payments for Network 
Integration Transmission Service, or (3) pays directly for network upgrades over time with no payments for 

--- PAGE 9 ---
- 9 - 
 
analysis does not consider any instances where the large load does not attain and sustain  
transmission service at the level expected when the associated network upgrades were 
planned, it fails to grapple with one of the most significant issues related to large load 
interconnections. The Commission should thus give that analysis little weight in 
considering what actions to take in response to the ANOPR.  
Moreover, WIRES uses faulty assumptions in analyzing the narrow cost-shifting 
issue it does address. WIRES claims are based on the assumption that the Commission’s 
existing “and” pricing policy requires an upfront determination that large loads pay only 
(1) the incremental costs of network upgrades they cause, or (2) rolled-in transmission 
rates. Its whitepaper “is limited to assessing the potential for cost shifts under a 
requirement to solely use direct assignment,”23 and WIRES therefore “presumes that 
large load customers would be exempt from [Network Integration Transmission Service] 
charges that fund ongoing development, maintenance, and operation of the overall 
transmission system”24 if they are directly assigned the upfront costs of the network 
upgrades they cause.  
As discussed below, WIRES’ assumption is wrong. The Commission is not 
restricted to completely exempting large loads from ongoing transmission charges if it 
holds large loads initially responsible for the full costs of the network upgrades they 
cause.  
First, when the Commission developed its “and” pricing policy decades ago, it did 
not contemplate the specific challenges now facing the grid due to the rapid growth of 
 
Network Integration Transmission Service. Id., Appendix at 7-8. WIRES does not consider any scenarios in 
which the large load fails to sustain its full 200 MW of demand over time. 
23 Id., Appendix at 19 n.17.  
24 Id. at 4. 

--- PAGE 10 ---
- 10 - 
 
large load interconnections primarily driven by data centers.25 The Commission’s ability 
to address this major, new challenge need not be hamstrung by past policy developed to 
address very different issues. As the D.C. Circuit has explained, the standard for the 
Commission to depart from a past policy “is not an especially high bar: ‘it suffices that 
the new policy is permissible under the statute, that there are good reasons for it, and that 
the agency believes it to be better, which the conscious change of course adequately 
indicates.’”26 Given the new and unique challenges posed by large load interconnections 
due to their size, rapid pace of development, and the enormous stranded cost risks they 
pose to other customers, a new policy specifically tailored to these challenges would be 
well within the Commission’s authority.  
Second, even without a change in policy, the Commission has options beyond the 
only two analyzed by WIRES. Existing Commission policy specifically provides that 
transmission providers may “charge the higher of the embedded costs of the 
Transmission System with expansion costs rolled in, or incremental expansion costs, but 
not the sum of the two.”27 Which of these approaches is the permissible “higher” one will 
be case-specific—depending on the magnitude of incremental costs, the rolled-in 
transmission rate, the load in question, whether that load is sustained over a long period 
of time, etc.  
 
25 See Comments of the Harvard Electricity Law Initiative at 5-8 (Apr. 15, 2026), eLibrary No. 20260415-
5094 (explaining that the Commission’s “and” pricing policy was developed in the 1990s in order to 
promote competition and prevent utilities from exercising market power, and that the Commission at that 
time did not address issues related to transmission pricing for large-load customers).  
26 Southwest Airlines Co. v. FERC, 926 F.3d 851, 856 (D.C. Cir. 2019) (quoting FCC v. Fox Television 
Stations, Inc., 556 U.S. 502, 515 (2009)).  
27 Standardization of Generator Interconnection Agreements and Procedures, Order No. 2003, 104 FERC 
¶ 61,103, P 694 n.111 (2003), clarified, 106 FERC ¶ 61,009, order on reh’g, Order No. 2003-A, 106 FERC 
¶ 61,220, order on reh’g, Order No. 2003-B, 109 FERC ¶ 61,287 (2004), order on reh’g, Order 
No. 2003-C, 111 FERC ¶ 61,401 (2005), aff’d sub nom., NARUC v. FERC, 475 F.3d 1277 (D.C. Cir. 
2007), cert. denied, 128 S. Ct. 1468 (2008). 

--- PAGE 11 ---
- 11 - 
 
The crediting mechanism described in TAPS’s opening comments is both 
consistent with this “higher of” principle and more protective against cost-shifts caused 
by large load interconnections. Under that mechanism,28 the large load would pay the 
upfront cost of any network upgrades, but it would have the opportunity to be credited 
back that full amount, so long as its transmission usage over time is sufficient to cover 
the costs. This ensures that the large load pays the higher of either incremental costs or 
rolled-in transmission rates, mitigating the stranded cost risks to other wholesale 
customers if the large load fails to maintain a level of demand sufficient to justify the cost 
of the network upgrades caused by the large load.  
 
28 TAPS Comments at 22-24 (explaining that a crediting mechanism tailored to the challenges posed by 
large load interconnections would need to differ than crediting under the Commission’s pro forma 
generator interconnection rules; for instance, the pro forma generation interconnection rule’s balloon 
payment after a fixed period of time regardless of transmission service usage would fail to prevent cost 
shifts to other customers). 

--- PAGE 12 ---
- 12 - 
 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons set forth above, the Commission should consider the TAPS 
opening comments and these Supplemental Comments as it moves forward with this 
important effort. 
Respectfully submitted, 
/s/ Cynthia S. Bogorad 
Cynthia S. Bogorad 
William S. Huang 
Jeffrey M. Bayne 
Lauren L. Springett 
Attorneys for  
Transmission Access Policy Study Group 
Law Offices of: 
SPIEGEL & MCDIARMID LLP 
1818 N Street, NW 
8th Floor 
Washington, DC 20036 
(202) 879-4000 
May 12, 2026 
 
