--- PAGE 1 ---
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE  
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System. 
) 
) 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
 
COMMENTS FOR CONSUMER PROTECTION 
BY 
OFFICE OF THE OHIO CONSUMERS’ COUNSEL 
 
 
 
Maureen R. Willis (0020847) 
Ohio Consumers’ Counsel 
 
Office of the Ohio Consumers’ Counsel 
65 East State Street, Suite 700 
Columbus, Ohio 43215 
Telephone: (614) 286-7549 
maureen.willis@occ.ohio.gov 
November 21, 2025 
(willing to accept service by e-mail) 
 

--- PAGE 2 ---
i 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
PAGE 
 
I.  
INTRODUCTION ...............................................................................................................1 
II.  
PROTECT RESIDENTIAL CONSUMERS FROM COST SHIFTING.............................2 
III.  
ENSURE TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY ...............................................3 
IV.  
PRESERVE STATE AND LOCAL OVERSIGHT ............................................................4 
V.  
PRIORITIZE CONSUMER AFFORDABILITY AND EQUITY ......................................6 
VI.  
OTHER PRINCIPLES FOR REFORM...............................................................................7 
A. 
Deter Speculative Projects and Improve Load Forecasting. ....................................7 
B. 
Minimum Threshold Interconnection Standard Needed. .........................................8 
C. 
Expedited Interconnection Process. .........................................................................8 
D. 
Clarification of Interaction Transmission Planning Rules. ......................................9 
E. 
Treatment of Resource Adequacy. .........................................................................10 
F. 
Operational Limitations to Prevent Unauthorized Injections or Withdrawals. ......10 
G. 
Implementation Plan for Reforms. .........................................................................11 
VII.  
CONCLUSION ..................................................................................................................12 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 3 ---
1 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE  
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System. 
) 
) 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
 
COMMENTS FOR CONSUMER PROTECTION 
BY 
OFFICE OF THE OHIO CONSUMERS’ COUNSEL 
 
 
I.  
INTRODUCTION 
The Office of the Ohio Consumers’ Counsel (“OCC”), the state advocate for residential 
utility consumers, files these comments in response to the Secretary of Energy’s directive under 
Section 403 of the Department of Energy Organization Act and the Advance Notice of Proposed 
Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) on Ensuring the Timely and Orderly Interconnection of Large Loads. 
OCC appreciates the Commission’s commitment in this ANOPR to maintaining a reliable and 
nondiscriminatory transmission system. However, this proposal presents substantial risks to 
residential consumers, who could bear higher costs and diminished oversight as transmission 
policy shifts to accommodate extraordinary private demand growth from large industrial and data 
center loads.  
OCC urges the Commission to condition any final rule on (a) adherence to existing cost 
causation principles for allocation of any costs associated with large load interconnections; (b) 
demonstrated public benefits before allowing any shift of interconnection customer caused costs 
to other consumers; (c) respect for current state laws, tariffs and orders governing provision of 
electric and transmission service to retail loads; and (d) transparency safeguards that protect 
households from unjust or unreasonable rates. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
2 
II.  
PROTECT RESIDENTIAL CONSUMERS FROM COST SHIFTING 
The ANOPR proposes that large loads be responsible for 100 percent of assigned 
network upgrade costs. ANOPR at p. 25. But it also seeks comment on adopting crediting 
mechanisms similar to those adopted in Order No. 2003 for allocation of network upgrades 
associated with generation interconnections, and other cost recovery approaches. Id. In OCC’s 
experience, such “credits” frequently evolve into generalized cost socialization—resulting in rate 
impacts borne by retail residential customers who do not benefit from the facilities being built. 
 
Federal Power Act sections 205 and 206, 16 U.S.C. §§ 824d and 824e, require that 
consumers pay only rates, terms and conditions for interstate transmission services that are just, 
reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or preferential. Any proposed and final rules adopted 
in this proceeding therefore should: 
• 
Prohibit the use of transmission credits, rate-based recovery, or regional cost 
allocation mechanisms for interstate transmission facilities built primarily to serve 
large private loads; 
• 
Require verification that interconnection-driven network upgrade investments 
associated with large load interconnections are necessary for system reliability 
and/or deliverability of electricity to the general public before any costs are 
shifted to consumers other than large loads; and 
• 
Ensure that transmission cost recovery aligns with current cost causation and cost 
allocation principles developed in Illinois Commerce Commission v. FERC, 576 
F.3d 470, 476 (7th Cir. 2009) (ICC I) (“FERC is not authorized to approve a 
pricing scheme that requires a group of utilities to pay for facilities from which its 
members derive no benefits, or benefits that are trivial in relation to the costs 

--- PAGE 5 ---
3 
sought to be shifted to its members.”) and Illinois Commerce Comm’n v. FERC, 
756 F.3d 556 (7th Cir. 2014) (ICC II). . These cases require that those paying the 
costs must receive actual system benefits, not merely just satisfying national, state 
or local economic development goals. 
 
III.  
ENSURE TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY 
The proposal’s claim that the National Environmental Policy Act (“NEPA”) review 
requirements do not apply to this ANOPR1 could be interpreted as a request for omission of 
public participation requirements for development and implementation of any proposed rules or 
for identification of those seeking large load interconnections. Any such interpretation would be 
deeply concerning. Consumers, state advocates and state regulatory commissions have a right to 
know which entities are seeking large-load interconnections, the nature of the requested service, 
and how related costs could flow through to transmission and distribution rates. This is 
especially important in states, like Ohio, that have embraced the development of competitive 
electricity markets because the unbundled rates for interstate transmission service are regulated 
by the Commission. In any proposed final rule regarding large load interconnections, OCC urges 
the Commission to require public utilities, Regional Transmission Organizations and 
Independent System Operators to provide public posting of: 
• 
All interconnection requests above 20 MW, including project type and location; 
• 
Cost responsibility determinations and any resulting upgrades; and 
 
1 In his Oct. 23, 2025 letter to the Commission requesting that FERC initiate the ANOPR, Secretary of Energy Chris 
Wright states in footnote 4 that “NEPA does not apply to rulemaking actions proposed by the Secretary pursuant to 
section 403(a) of the DOE Act . . . because such proposals are not final agency action.” 

--- PAGE 6 ---
4 
• 
Annual reporting on the consumer cost impacts of large-load interconnections, 
associated transmission expansions, and the impact on electricity and capacity 
markets rates for consumers other than large loads. 
Absent these transparency measures, consumers risk paying for projects with little to no public 
benefit, thus subsidizing the interconnection of large loads. This is especially concerning given 
that those may never materialize. 
 
IV.  
PRESERVE STATE AND LOCAL OVERSIGHT 
DOE’s assertion that the ANOPR proposal does not impinge upon state authority 
overlooks the practical effect of expanding federal jurisdiction to load interconnections. States 
have long been responsible for local siting, permitting, and oversight of retail rate impacts. A 
rule that allows direct transmission interconnections for large end-use customers without 
coordination with state commissions could undermine local reliability and accountability. 
 
In particular, FERC’s rule must not undercut or preempt state efforts to manage large-
load growth through retail tariffs and rate design. For example, Ohio’s Large Data Center Tariff 
was developed through state regulatory proceedings to balance the interests of high-load 
customers with system costs and reliability for existing retail consumers. These state-level tariffs 
represent careful policy judgments about economic development, cost recovery, and local grid 
capacity. Any federal rule that allows large loads to bypass or duplicate that retail framework 
could distort state ratemaking authority, cause revenue instability for utilities, and shift costs to 
residential and small business consumers. 
While FERC undoubtedly has jurisdiction over interstate transmission facilities and 
services, the ANOPR overstates the breadth of that jurisdiction. As the United States Supreme 
Court recognized in New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1, 28 (2002), “It is obvious that a federal order 

--- PAGE 7 ---
5 
claiming jurisdiction over all retail transmissions would have even greater implications for the 
States’ regulation of retail sales—a state regulatory power recognized by the same statutory 
provision that authorizes FERC's transmission jurisdiction. See 16 U.S.C. § 824(b) (giving 
FERC jurisdiction over “transmission of electric energy,” but recognizing state jurisdiction over 
“any . . . sale of electric energy” other than “sale of electric energy at wholesale”).” In upholding 
a state’s authority to regulate the provision of energy services directly to retail loads in the 
context of gas pipeline bypass concerns, the Court stated that: 
[T]he primary aim of this legislation was to protect consumers 
against exploitation at the hands of natural gas companies.’ The 
scheme was one of cooperative action between federal and state 
agencies. It could accomplish neither that protective aim nor the 
comprehensive and effective dual regulation Congress had in 
mind, if those companies could divert at will all or the cream of 
their business to unregulated industrial uses.” 332 U. S. at 519, 
520-521. The statutory scheme of “dual regulation” might have 
some overlaps or conflicts but no such exigencies appear here. 
There are no opposing directives and hence no necessity for us to 
resolve any conflicting claims as between state and federal 
regulation. Appellant concedes, as it must, that direct sales by it to 
industrial consumers are subject to state rate regulation under the 
Panhandle-Indiana decision. 
 
Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Co. v. FERC, 341 U.S. 329, 336 (1951). The courts have 
routinely recognized that “the relevant provisions of the two statutes are analogous” and 
courts “routinely relied on NGA cases in determining the scope of the FPA, and vice 
versa.” Hughes v. Talen Energy Mktg., LLC, 578 U.S. 150, 164, n.10 (2016).  
In Panhandle Eastern, the court addressed state concerns regarding the potential for 
bypass of local gas distribution systems by allowing more lucrative, larger consumers to connect 
directly to the interstate pipeline system. The Court upheld state authority to regulate the direct 
sale to a retail customer, noting that the system set up by the NGA “was one of cooperative 
action between federal and state agencies. It could accomplish neither that protective aim nor the 

--- PAGE 8 ---
6 
comprehensive and effective dual regulation Congress had in mind, if those companies could 
divert at will all or the cream of their business to unregulated industrial uses.” Panhandle 
Eastern, 341 U.S. at 336, citing Panhandle Pipe Line Co. v. Public Service Comm’n of Indiana, 
332 U.S. 507, 519-21 (1947). 
While the ANOPR acknowledges state rate authority over retail services to large loads 
(ANOPR at p. 2), it nonetheless proposes that FERC issue rules related to transmission and 
ancillary services to these loads. ANOPR at pp. 28-29. The ANOPR makes no mention of the 
prohibitions in FPA sections 212(g) and (h) on federal regulation of retail marketing areas and of 
federal regulations “concerning the transmission of electric energy directly to an ultimate 
consumer.”  
Accordingly, the Commission should expressly recognize that states retain 
authority to regulate through retail tariffs and service conditions for large-load customers. 
The federal rule should complement—not displace—those efforts. The Commission also 
should require coordination of the development of any specific federal rules governing 
large load interconnections with state utility regulators and consumer advocates prior to 
approving any load interconnection request that materially affects retail rates, distribution 
infrastructure, or local reliability conditions.  
 
V.  
PRIORITIZE CONSUMER AFFORDABILITY AND EQUITY 
The Commission’s primary duty under the Federal Power Act is to protect the public 
interest by ensuring that rates are just, reasonable, and not unduly discriminatory.2 The 
ANOPR’s focus on facilitating “AI innovation” and industrial expansion risks reframing FERC’s 
 
2 Atl. Ref, Co. v. Pub. Serv. Comm’n, 360 U.S. 378 (1959) (finding that the Commission’s primary under the parallel 
provisions of the Natural Gas Act, 15 U.S.C. s 717 et seq., is to provide a “complete, permanent and effective bond 
of protection from excessive rates and charges” for consumers.) 

--- PAGE 9 ---
7 
mission toward private economic goals rather than consumer protection and system reliability. 
The Commission should affirm that no interconnection right or transmission upgrade will be 
granted unless the applicant bears 100% of the costs of interconnection-related costs. Any shift 
in those costs to other consumers should only occur if the applicant demonstrates a net public 
benefit, including consideration of the effects on affordability, local grid conditions, and 
reliability for existing consumers. OCC further recommends that consumer representatives be 
formally included in the stakeholder process as the compliance filings for the proposed rule are 
developed, consistent with FERC’s principles of openness and fairness in the regulation of 
interstate transmission services. 
 
VI.  
OTHER PRINCIPLES FOR REFORM 
A. 
Deter Speculative Projects and Improve Load Forecasting. 
OCC supports strong readiness and financial requirements to deter speculative large-load 
interconnection requests that can distort transmission planning and increase costs for consumers. 
In recent years, speculative filings- particularly by unconfirmed data center and industrial 
developers- have contributed to inaccurate demand forecasts and queue congestion, which can 
lead to unnecessary or premature network upgrades later recovered from consumers. 
The Commission should therefore require that interconnection applicants demonstrate 
both technical and financial viability before entering the study process. At a minimum, 
applicants should provide evidence of site control, zoning and permitting progress, and financing 
or contractual commitments for the proposed facility. OCC also supports scaling study deposits 
and readiness milestones to project size, with non-refundable deposits and withdrawal penalties 
to discourage speculative queue participation.  

--- PAGE 10 ---
8 
These measures are necessary to protect residential consumers from bearing the costs of 
overbuilt transmission infrastructure resulting from inaccurate or inflated demand projections. 
Transparent reporting of queue attrition rates and coordination with state regulators on load 
forecasting will further promote accountability and prudent system planning.  
B. 
Minimum Threshold Interconnection Standard Needed. 
OCC supports retaining a defined minimum threshold such as 20 MW for purposes of 
any federal interconnection standard. This boundary appropriately limits federal jurisdiction to 
only the largest transmission-connected loads and avoids unnecessary preemption of state 
oversight.  
The Commission should also make clear that states remain free to regulate load 
interconnections below this threshold through tariffs and retail service rules, such as Ohio’s 
Large Data Center Tariff, which ensures that local consumers are not at a disadvantage in any 
large industrial projects. Eliminating the threshold would risk drawing smaller commercial and 
community facilities into FERC’s jurisdiction and undermining local affordability protections. 
C. 
Expedited Interconnection Process. 
OCC recognizes the potential value of large loads that agree to be curtailable or 
dispatchable as system resources. However, any expedited connection process must be designed 
to protect consumers from inequitable queue treatment, hidden reliability costs, or cost shifting. 
The Commission should avoid a purely serial interconnection study process for these 
projects. Serial studies can fragment system planning, overlook cumulative impacts, and result in 
network upgrades that are later socialized through transmission rates. Instead, the Commission 
should adopt a coordinated or clustered study framework that evaluates the effects of all large-
load and hybrid requests together on system impacts and cost responsibility. 

--- PAGE 11 ---
9 
OCC further recommends that any expedited processing be contingent on enforceable 
curtailment and dispatchability commitment verified through telemetry and subject to penalties 
for non-performance. Without these enforceable standards, “curtailable” projects could 
effectively behave as firm load while benefiting from preferential queue treatment to the 
detriment of consumers and overall system reliability. In short, speed should not come at the 
expense of fairness, reliability, or cost causation.  
D. 
Clarification of Interaction Transmission Planning Rules. 
The Commission should include provisions in any proposed and final rule in this 
proceeding regarding incorporation of large load interconnections into transmission planning 
rules, particularly in RTO regions. In many regions, including PJM, there is significant dispute 
regarding the responsibility of planning for local transmission facilities, known as Supplemental 
Projects in PJM. Consumers have filed two complaint cases regarding the inadequacy of 
transmission planning for facilities the RTOs consider local, or non-regional in nature. See Office 
of the Ohio Consumers’ Counsel v. PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., et al., Docket No. EL23-105-
000 filed on September 28, 2023 and Industrial Energy Consumers of America, et al. v. Avista 
Corp., et al., Docket No. EL25-44-000 filed on December 19, 2024. Both remain pending at the 
Commission. 
Transmission planning by RTOs should be extended to include large loads 
interconnecting to transmission facilities considered local, or not-regional in nature. As 
explained in the two complaints, many states do not oversee the need for construction and cost-
effectiveness of facilities that fall below the RTOs’ thresholds for regional planning. Yet these 
expansion facilities comprise more than 75% of the costs of new investment in interstate 
transmission infrastructure. Large load interconnections to any interstate transmission facility, no 

--- PAGE 12 ---
10 
matter how local in nature from a planning perspective, should not escape Commission review 
under the ANOPR and any proposed or final rules on this matter.  
E. 
Treatment of Resource Adequacy. 
OCC agrees that system support resource (“SSR”) and reliability-must-run (“RMR”) 
studies should evaluate not only local transmission reliability but also systemwide resource 
adequacy impacts when a generating facility seeks to suspend operations to serve new load. The 
withdrawal of existing generation capacity to support private industrial or data-center load can 
reduce regional reserve margins and increase capacity prices borne by retail consumers  
The Commission should therefore require a two-part analysis. First the SSR/RMR study 
must confirm that the partial suspension will not compromise local reliability or voltage stability, 
with all resulting network upgraded costs borne by the requesting facility. Second, the RTO or 
regional planning authority should perform a forward-looking resource adequacy assessment- 
spanning at least three years – to determine whether the suspension would erode reserve margins 
or necessitate additional capacity procurement. If so, the interconnecting customer should be 
required either to procure equivalent replacement capacity or to reimburse the system of 
incremental reliability costs. The cost of obtaining replacement capacity should not be borne by 
existing consumers who have relied on and been paying for the suspension resources for many 
years.  
Considering resource adequacy in this manner aligns with cost-causation principles and 
protects consumers from subsidizing private business decisions that reduce the overall supply or 
generation available to the market.  
F. 
Operational Limitations to Prevent Unauthorized Injections or Withdrawals. 
OCC supports strong and enforceable operational limitations on hybrid facilities to 
prevent unauthorized injections or withdrawals that can impose costs or reliability risks on 

--- PAGE 13 ---
11 
consumers. Hybrid facilities that both draw and inject energy at a single interconnection point 
must not be allowed to use the transmission system for arbitrage or unaccounted energy 
transactions that shift balancing and congestion costs to other customers. 
The Commission should require: 
• 
Automated protection and telemetry equipment that caps injections and 
withdrawals to approved rights; 
• 
Separate metering for inflows and outflows to ensure proper assessment of 
transmission, ancillary service and energy charges; 
• 
Mandatory financial penalties for unauthorized injections or withdrawals with 
penalty revenues credited to offset uplift costs borne by other customers; and  
• 
Public reporting of hybrid facility performance and enforcement actions to ensure 
transparency and accountability.  
These measures are essential to uphold cost causation principles, protect residential consumers 
from subsidizing private commercial operations and maintain system reliability as hybrid load-
generation projects proliferate.  
G. 
Implementation Plan for Reforms. 
OCC urges the Commission to adopt a deliberate and transparent implementation plan for 
any final large-load interconnection reforms. The transition between existing and new procedures 
poses risk of delay, duplication, and cost shifting that could ultimately harm consumers. 
The Commission should: 
• 
Require transmission providers and RTOs to publish implementation schedules 
identifying which interconnection requests will be processed under existing 
versus new procedures; 

--- PAGE 14 ---
12 
• 
Grandfather projects that have met established milestones- such as completion of 
feasibility or system impact studies – to preserve investment certainty and prevent 
queue instability; 
• 
Prohibit utilities from recovering from consumers any duplicative study or 
administrative costs incurred because of the transition; 
• 
Direct RTOs to coordinate with state commissions and consumer advocates to 
evaluate how transition timing may affect local reliability or retail rates; and 
• 
Require periodic public reporting on queue progress, study completion, and any 
cost impacts associated with the transition.  
These measures will protect consumers from unnecessary costs, maintain reliability, and 
ensure a fair and orderly transition to new interconnection procedures. 
 
VII.  CONCLUSION 
Consumers should not bear the financial or reliability burdens of speculative industrial 
growth. OCC urges the Commission to ensure that the costs of accommodating large-load 
interconnections are borne entirely by those entities that cause them, that transparency and state 
coordination are mandatory, and that affordability and consumer protection remain central to this 
rulemaking. 
 
 

--- PAGE 15 ---
13 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
/s/ Maureen R. Willis 
Maureen R. Willis (0020847) 
Ohio Consumers’ Counsel 
 
Office of the Ohio Consumers’ Counsel 
65 East State Street, Suite 700 
Columbus, Ohio 43215 
Telephone: (614) 286-7549 
maureen.willis@occ.ohio.gov 
(willing to accept service by e-mail) 
 
 

--- PAGE 16 ---
14 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
 
I hereby certify that a copy of the foregoing Comments for Consumer Protection was 
served via electronic transmission upon all parties of record on the Commission’s official service 
list in this proceeding on this 21st day of November 2025. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/ Maureen R. Willis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Maureen R. Willis 
Ohio Consumers’ Counsel 
 
