--- PAGE 1 ---
  
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System 
) 
) 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
 
COMMENTS OF BUCKEYE POWER, INC. 
 
On October 27, 2025, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC” or 
“Commission”) issued a Notice Inviting Comments1 on the proposed advance notice of 
proposed rulemaking (“ANOPR”)2 released by the Secretary of Energy addressing 
interconnection of large loads to the interstate transmission system. Buckeye Power, Inc. 
(“Buckeye”) respectfully files these comments to address limited, but critical, aspects of 
the ANOPR.3 Specifically, the Commission must ensure that other wholesale 
transmission customers are protected against the real risk of massive stranded 
transmission costs caused by large load interconnections.  
I. 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
New large loads—primarily data centers—are causing, and will continue to cause, 
enormous transmission investments. There is serious concern that these large loads could 
drive significant transmission investment and then not show up to pay for it on a 
sustained basis. If a large load fails to materialize or consume electricity at the level and 
 
1 Notice Inviting Comments (Oct. 27, 2025), eLibrary No. 20251027-3056 (the “Notice”). 
2 Ensuring the Timely and Orderly Interconnection of Large Loads, Proposed Advanced Notice of 
Proposed Rulemaking (Oct. 27, 2025), eLibrary No. 20251027-4001 (“ANOPR”).  
3 While the ANOPR addresses other important issues relating to large load interconnections, in these initial 
comments Buckeye focuses solely on issues related to transmission cost allocation and responsibility. 
Buckeye reserves the right to comment on other issues in its reply. 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
- 2 - 
 
duration expected when these transmission investments were made, other wholesale 
transmission customers (and, ultimately, their retail customers) may be faced with the 
massive costs of investments they did not cause. This novel risk of significant stranded 
transmission investment is a critical issue the Commission must consider in evaluating 
large load interconnections. 
Buckeye supports certain of the Principles laid out in the ANOPR that would 
ensure that large loads pay for the costs and impact to the grid they cause. Although these 
large loads may be retail customers, they have significant impacts on Commission-
jurisdictional transmission rates and risk significant cost shifts to other wholesale 
transmission customers. Because the Commission is obligated under the Federal Power 
Act (“FPA”) to ensure that rates under its jurisdiction are just, reasonable, and not unduly 
discriminatory, the Commission must ensure that large loads are responsible for the cost 
of transmission facilities built to serve them so other wholesale customers are not left 
holding the bag. These issues cannot be solved at the retail level alone.  
 
ANOPR Principle 8  
o Buckeye supports holding large loads such as data centers directly 
responsible for 100% of the network upgrades they are assigned through 
interconnection studies (which could include crediting, provided that 
crediting is designed to ensure that wholesale transmission customers are 
protected). This approach is the clearest way to protect other customers 
from unjust, unreasonable, and unduly discriminatory transmission rates.  
o To the extent the Commission does not hold these large loads directly 
accountable for the costs they cause, it should nevertheless ensure that 
other wholesale transmission customers are protected. For example, it 
should hold the relevant wholesale transmission entity (i.e., the wholesale 
entity with a direct, retail relationship with the large load for purposes of 
distribution and transmission) responsible for network upgrades caused by 
the large load interconnection. This approach would both protect other 
wholesale transmission customers and allow the relevant wholesale 
transmission entity to ensure that the large load is responsible for these 
costs through retail-level mechanisms.  

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
- 3 - 
 
o If the Commission does not adopt one of the two approaches above, it 
should at minimum ensure that any mechanisms adopted in retail tariffs or 
agreements for large loads to address potential stranded costs (e.g., 
minimum payments, minimum terms, exit fees, etc.) be reflected in 
Commission-jurisdictional rates. Because these large loads affect 
Commission-jurisdictional transmission rates, doing so is necessary to 
ensure just, reasonable, and not unduly discriminatory transmission rates 
for all wholesale transmission customers. Absent Commission action, 
there is no assurance that transmission owners are not merely protecting 
themselves and their associated retail customers from significant stranded 
transmission cost risks at the expense of others, and there is no assurance 
against double recovering (i.e., recovering stranded transmission costs 
from both their own retail large load customers and other wholesale 
transmission customers).  
 ANOPR Principle 4 
o Buckeye supports requirements to deter speculative projects, such as 
standardized study deposits, readiness requirements, and withdrawal 
penalties. 
o Although these requirements may prevent speculative projects from 
entering the study process, they do not address the major stranded cost 
concerns with data centers that complete the study process, cause massive 
transmission upgrades, but then do not have the expected level of demand 
over a sustained period.  
 ANOPR Principle 13 
o Because large data center load interconnections are already causing huge 
transmission investments that impact Commission-jurisdictional rates, 
Buckeye supports a transition mechanism for the treatment of large load 
interconnections that are already being studied. 
o If holding the large loads directly responsible for network upgrade costs is 
not possible in this transition period, the Commission should use the 
alternatives described above as a transition mechanism.  
II. 
INTEREST OF BUCKEYE 
Buckeye is an Ohio non-profit generation and transmission cooperative that 
produces, procures, and provides at wholesale all the electric capacity, energy, and 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
- 4 - 
 
transmission required by its member electric distribution cooperatives.4 Buckeye operates 
as a cooperative and is owned by its 25 member distribution cooperatives, which are in 
turn each owned by their member-consumers. Buckeye thus operates not for the benefit 
of shareholders, but for the benefit of its member-consumers. Buckeye’s mission is to 
provide “to all member systems, stably and competitively priced, economical and highly 
reliable wholesale power, for the benefit of their members and their communities.”5 
Buckeye arranges transmission services for the delivery of generation to its 
member electric distribution cooperatives at over 400 delivery points in the State of Ohio. 
Those member distribution cooperatives serve over 400,000 residential, commercial, and 
industrial customers in service territories encompassing primarily rural areas in 77 of 
Ohio’s 88 counties. Buckeye is a Transmission Dependent Utility (“TDU”), meaning that 
it depends almost exclusively on PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (“PJM”) and four 
transmission owners in Ohio (Duke Energy Ohio, Ohio Power Company/AEP Ohio 
Transmission Company, Inc., American Transmission Systems, Inc., and the Dayton 
Power & Light Company) for transmission of electricity to its member cooperatives. As a 
TDU, Buckeye is subject to PJM’s Open Access Transmission Tariff (“OATT”), which 
 
4 The 25 distribution cooperative members of Buckeye are: Adams Rural Electric Cooperative, Inc.; 
Buckeye Rural Electric Cooperative, Inc.; Butler Rural Electric Cooperative, Inc.; Carroll Electric 
Cooperative, Inc.; Consolidated Cooperative, Inc.; Darke Rural Electric Cooperative, Inc.; Firelands 
Electric Cooperative, Inc.; The Frontier Power Company; Guernsey-Muskingum Electric Cooperative, Inc.; 
Hancock-Wood Electric Cooperative, Inc.; Holmes-Wayne Electric Cooperative, Inc.; Licking Rural 
Electrification, Inc.; Logan County Cooperative Power and Light Association, Inc.; Lorain-Medina Rural 
Electric Cooperative, Inc.; Mid-Ohio Energy Cooperative, Inc.; Midwest Electric, Inc.; Midwest Energy & 
Communications; North Central Electric Cooperative, Inc.; North Western Electric Cooperative, Inc.; 
Paulding-Putnam Electric Cooperative, Inc.; Pioneer Rural Electric Cooperative, Inc.; South Central Power 
Company; Tricounty Rural Electric Cooperative, Inc.; Union Rural Electric Cooperative, Inc.; and 
Washington Electric Cooperative, Inc. 
5 Buckeye’s mission statement can be found on its website at https://ohioec.org/buckeye-power. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
- 5 - 
 
includes cost recovery for transmission upgrades and expansions made by each 
transmission owner in Ohio and regional transmission projects assigned by PJM. 
Buckeye also owns and operates generation resources to meet its members’ load 
requirements and is a participant in the PJM capacity market as both a generation owner 
and a Load Serving Entity (“LSE”). In order for Buckeye to provide reliable and 
affordable electric supply to its members and their retail members, it is essential that the 
Commission adopt a rule in this proceeding that makes large loads responsible for the 
costs that they cause and that does not allow large loads to shift costs to other wholesale 
transmission customers, like Buckeye, should the large loads fail to materialize and 
maintain their expected level of service over a sustained time. 
Buckeye appreciates the Commission’s issuance of the proposed ANOPR and 
Notice to address these issues. Communications regarding these proceedings should be 
directed to: 
Kurt P. Helfrich 
General Counsel 
Lija Kaleps-Clark 
Deputy General Counsel 
Buckeye Power, Inc. 
Ohio Rural Electric Cooperatives, Inc. 
6677 Busch Boulevard 
Columbus, OH  43229 
Phone: (614) 681-5151 
khelfrich@ohioec.org 
lkaleps@ohioec.org 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
- 6 - 
 
III. 
COMMENTS 
A. Large loads, primarily data centers, are creating significant stranded 
transmission cost risks that require Commission action. 
i. Large loads are driving massive transmission investments. 
Large loads, primarily data centers, are spurring significant transmission 
investments and associated costs in the PJM region and across the United States. PJM’s 
load forecasts currently anticipate approximately 30 GW of additional data center load 
coming online by 2030.6 Massive transmission investments are needed to serve these new 
loads in the form of both large regional projects and local transmission projects. 
As with the load forecast, the magnitude of transmission investment required is 
also staggering. Load growth of approximately 10,000 MW driven largely by data centers 
in the Dominion Zone of PJM resulted in approximately $12 billion in transmission 
investment across PJM.7 Ohio Power Company (“AEP Ohio”) stated in its recent retail 
 
6 Letter from David E. Mills, Chair, PJM Board of Managers, to PJM Stakeholders (Aug. 8, 2025), 
https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/about-pjm/who-we-are/public-disclosures/2025/20250808-pjm-
board-letter-re-implementation-of-critical-issue-fast-path-process-for-large-load-additions.pdf (“Indeed, 
PJM’s 2025 long-term load forecast shows a peak load growth of 32 GW from 2024 to 2030. Of this, 
approximately 30 GW is projected to be from data centers.”). Preliminary information submitted as part of 
PJM’s Large Load Adjustment process for the 2026 long-term load forecast indicates that PJM may see as 
much as 60 GW of new large loads by 2030. See Letter from Office of the People’s Counsel, State of 
Maryland, to David Mills, Chair, PJM Board of Managers and Manu Asthana, PJM President and CEO at 1 
(Oct. 14, 2025), 
https://opc.maryland.gov/Portals/0/Files/Publications/Others/MPC%20letter%20to%20PJM%20and%20co
mments%20re%202026%20cycle%20Load%20Forecasting%20FINAL%2010142025.pdf?ver=dH4rBUdC
K1fC9WK8QoE6vQ%3D%3D. This 60 GW number is based on the aggregate of the Transmission 
Owners’ and Load Serving Entities’ individual Large Load Adjustment requests for “demand” and 
“capacity” increases recently posted and then compiled together by PJM as part of its 2026 Large Load 
Adjustment. Id. These numbers are preliminary. 
7 Adding the baseline upgrades developed during recent PJM Competitive Planning Windows sums to 
$12.163 billion. See details below:  
 
Baseline upgrades developed during an “Immediate Need” reliability evaluation (and approved by 
PJM in Oct 2022) totaled $652 million. See PJM Transmission Expansion Advisory Committee 
(“TEAC”), Recommendations to the PJM Board White Paper at 1 (Oct. 2022), 
https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/committees-
groups/committees/teac/2022/20221004/20221004-pjm-teac-board-whitepaper-october-2022.pdf 
 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
- 7 - 
 
data center tariff case that 4,500 MW of new data center load in Central Ohio, on top of 
existing load and already contracted data center load, would require three new 765 kV 
lines, resulting in total transmission investment of over $10 billion.8 More recently in 
September 2025, after AEP Ohio lifted a moratorium on new data center load it had 
instituted to deal with an overwhelming number of new data center requests, it reported 
that it had received requests for over 9,000 MW of new data center load in Central Ohio 
(and over 13,000 MW of new data center load in all of Ohio).9  
 
 
Baseline upgrades developed during 2022 RTEP Window 3 (and approved by PJM in Dec 2023) 
totaled $5.143 billion. See TEAC, Recommendations to the PJM Board White Paper at 1 (Dec. 
2023), https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/committees-
groups/committees/teac/2023/20231205/20231205-pjm-teac-board-whitepaper-december-
2023.pdf.  
 
Baseline upgrades developed during 2023 Window 2 (and approved by PJM in Aug 2024) totaled 
$448 million. See TEAC, Recommendations to the PJM Board White Paper at 1-2 (Aug. 2024), 
https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/committees-
groups/committees/teac/2024/20240806/20240806-pjm-board-whitepaper-august-2024.pdf. 
 
Baseline upgrades developed during 2024 RTEP Window 1 (and approved by PJM in Feb 2025) 
totaled $5.920 billion. See TEAC, Recommendations to the PJM Board White Paper at 2 (Feb. 
2025), https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/committees-
groups/committees/teac/2025/20250204/20250204-pjm-board-whitepaper-february-2025.pdf.  
Note, the figures above do not include the costs of supplemental projects associated with large load growth. 
8 In re Application of Ohio Power Co. for New Tariffs Related to Data Ctrs. & Mobile Data Ctrs., Docket 
No. 24-508-EL-ATA, Hr’g Tr. vol. II at 394:24-395:8, 399:16-400:8 (Pub. Utils. Comm’n of Ohio Dec. 4, 
2024) (“AEP Data Center Hr’g Tr.”) (Witness Ali stated “We did look at other solutions beyond 1,500 
megawatts. And what I do recall, at this point, is we were able to get to 4,500 megawatts, but that required 
three 765 kV lines in the model . . . ”). This 4,500 MW is in addition to 4,000 MW of existing load and 
5,000 MW that have executed Electric Service Agreements with AEP Ohio. Direct Testimony of Kamran 
Ali on Behalf of Ohio Power Co. at 3-5, In re Application of Ohio Power Co. for New Tariffs Related To 
Data Ctrs. & Mobile Data Ctrs., Docket No. 24-508-EL-ATA (Pub. Utils. Comm’n of Ohio May 13, 
2024). Witness Ali stated: “My expectation is that we have already connected 5,000, so you have got to 
take that into consideration. So my expectation is that, yes, beyond that, for the next 5,000, 6,000 
megawatt, we will be looking at something similar. So overall, the 10,000-megawatt incremental demand 
would probably be in very close proximity to that [$10 billion estimate].” AEP Data Center Hr’g Tr. vol. II 
at 400:2-8. 
9 See AEP Ohio, Correspondence re Status of Process for Signing Up New Schedule Data Center Tariff 
Customers, In re Application of Ohio Power Co. for New Tariffs Related to Data Ctrs. & Mobile Data 
Ctrs., Docket No. 24-508-EL-ATA (Pub. Utils. Comm’n of Ohio Sep. 11, 2025), 
https://dis.puc.state.oh.us/ViewImage.aspx?CMID=A1001001A25I11B15803D00410 (“This Monday, 
September 8, 2025, was the final day of the 45-day period for customers to submit load study requests, and 
as of that date, AEP Ohio had received requests to formally study 36 data center sites totaling 13,022.7 
MW of total load. Of this total, 32 sites totaling 9,807.7 MW of load were located within Central Ohio.”). 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
- 8 - 
 
Data center-driven costs are not limited to large regional projects; they can also 
cause significant local or supplemental transmission project costs. In 2024 alone, 
transmission owners in the PJM region proposed $4.3 billion in local transmission 
projects, with $2 billion coming from Virginia and $1.3 billion coming from Ohio, two 
epicenters of data center development.10 
ii. These investments to serve large loads pose real and significant 
risks of significant stranded transmission costs. 
While these costs are primarily driven by data center loads, currently all 
customers in the corresponding PJM transmission zones and, where applicable, in the 
broader PJM region will bear them. In PJM, the transmission system is planned and built 
for compliance with reliability standards based on load forecasts, which include large 
data center loads.  
For instance, AEP has represented that it submits its large load forecasts based on 
contracted for peak demand contained in the large load’s electric service agreement with 
its retail utility.11 The transmission investment required to serve these data center loads 
are rolled into AEP’s transmission rate base and recovered from transmission customers 
through the revenue requirement for the life of the transmission facilities, typically forty 
years or longer. Depending on the characteristics of the transmission facility at issue, the 
costs are shared throughout the PJM footprint and/or individual PJM zones—some of 
which, like the AEP Zone, cover multiple states and include other LSEs, like Buckeye. 
 
10 See Union of Concerned Scientists, Connection Costs: Loophole Costs Customers over $4 Billion to 
Connect Data Centers to Power Grid at 4 (Sep. 2025), https://www.ucs.org/sites/default/files/2025-
09/PJM%20Data%20Center%20Issue%20Brief%20-%20Sep%202025.pdf.  
11 AEP Data Center Hr’g Tr. vol. I at 244-247; Direct Testimony of Kamran Ali, on Behalf of Ohio Power 
Co. at 5-6, In re Application of Ohio Power Co. for New Tariffs Related to Data Ctrs. & Mobile Data Ctrs., 
Docket No. 24-508-EL-ATA (Pub. Utils. Comm’n of Ohio May 13, 2024).   

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
- 9 - 
 
If the data center load shows up as expected and built for—i.e., at the expected 
level of electricity consumption and over a sustained period of time—the increased costs 
of the data center-driven upgrades may be offset by the increased data center load. That 
offset could result in stable or reduced transmission rates for all customers, depending on 
the particular large load and network upgrades at issue.12 If, however, these large loads 
do not show up or fail to sustain their expected level of demand over a long period of 
time, these increased costs will be borne by all other wholesale customers (and their retail 
customers) in the PJM region. 
This problem directly affects Buckeye today. Transmission costs in the multi-state 
AEP Zone of PJM are allocated to wholesale transmission customers based on an annual 
single coincident peak (“1 CP”). In other words, transmission costs are allocated to 
wholesale transmission customers in this Zone based on their usage during a single peak 
hour of the entire year. The massive transmission investments driven by large load 
interconnection, particularly data center load served by AEP Ohio, are thus allocated 
based on this 1 CP methodology, rather than paid by the large loads (or assigned to the 
particular LSE of which the large load is a customer).  
If the large data center load shows up—and has sustained usage at expected levels 
for an extended time and during the 1 CP peak used for allocation—the LSE serving that 
load (here, AEP Ohio) will be allocated a larger share of zonal costs increase. As a result, 
other wholesale transmission customers in the zone have some protection against the 
 
12 It is also possible that transmission rates of other customers may still increase even if the data center load 
shows up as planned, if the incremental cost of new transmission facilities to serve data center load is 
higher than the average cost of the existing transmission system. Principle 8’s proposal to have large loads 
pay upfront for the cost of transmission facilities that they cause to be planned for and built would help to 
address the risk of cost shifting that could occur even if large loads show up as planned, and it is thus the 
most protective of other customers. 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
- 10 - 
 
higher zonal transmission costs because they will pay a smaller share of those costs. But 
there are numerous ways in which the large data center might not sustain the expected 
level of demand over time:13  
 First, the data center may go out of business or otherwise not take service 
after the transmission investments have already been incurred but before 
transmission service to the data center even commences.  
 Second, the data center may take service for some short amount of time 
after the transmission investment has been made but then go out of 
business, relocate, or otherwise leave the system.  
 Third, the data center could forecast higher levels of load than it ultimately 
takes service for on a sustained basis after the transmission investments 
have been incurred. This is a real possibility given the potential 
improvements in efficiencies, changes in technology, changes in business 
models, etc.  
 Fourth, even if the data center generally has usage at the expected level of 
demand over a long period of time, it may be able to reduce usage during 
the single peak hour used by most PJM transmission owners to allocate 
zonal costs (e.g., through use of behind the meter generation, on-site 
batteries, or curtailment). Indeed, data centers may be incentivized 
financially to reduce their usage during this single hour, by being given 
access to the 1 CP demand charge for transmission billing at retail, for 
example. This reduction of metered demand during a select, targeted time 
does not reduce the costs of transmission investments that have already 
been built; it simply shifts those costs to existing customers.  
In all of these scenarios, the data center fails to contribute to the 1 CP values used to 
allocate costs to wholesale transmission customers at the amount expected over the life of 
the transmission investment it caused.14 As a result, the remaining transmission 
customers in the entire multi-state AEP Zone would see higher zonal transmission costs. 
But AEP Ohio (and its own retail load) would be allocated only a portion of those 
 
13 In these Comments, stranded cost concerns encompass all four of these scenarios.  
14 For that reason, Dominion Energy made a voluntary filing to change its transmission zonal cost allocator 
from 1 CP to 12 CP, which the Commission approved. PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 169 FERC ¶ 61,041 
(2019), on reh’g, 172 FERC ¶ 61,054 (2020). 

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
- 11 - 
 
stranded costs, and other LSEs (like Buckeye) would see significant increases in their 
costs. Consequently, other LSEs in the AEP Zone will bear the stranded costs of 
transmission facilities built to serve large loads whose actual usage is materially different 
than their forecast usage.  
Table 1 below shows a simplified example of how other wholesale transmission 
customers will bear transmission costs caused by large data center interconnections if the 
data center loads fail to take service at the level for which they were planned.15 Table 1 
shows the significant risk that if data centers do not actually maintain the demand for 
which it was planned, other customers will bear substantial additional costs caused by 
data center loads through Commission-jurisdictional rates. In this example (given the 
particular loads and costs used), other wholesale transmission customers are unaffected if 
data centers’ usage is the full 10,000 MW forecast. As Example #2 shows, in this 
scenario the 1 CP of the “Host Utility” increases sufficiently such that it is allocated the 
full $1 billion in increased revenue requirement caused by data center interconnections. 
But as Example #3 shows, if the data center loads in the Host Utility’s service territory 
fail to show up (and thus the 1 CP of the “Host Utility” decreases), while the 1 CPs of the 
other wholesale transmission customers remain unchanged, the “Host Utility” is only 
allocated $0.75 billion of the $1 billion increase in revenue requirement caused by the 
data center interconnections. Whereas the other wholesale transmission customers bear 
the remaining $0.25 billion. Example #4 shows that even if the data center loads have 
 
15 The examples used in the table are entirely hypothetical and are not meant to represent the existing 
transmission revenue requirement of any particular transmission owner, or the incremental cost to build 
transmission facilities to accommodate the planned for load of any particular data center.  This table also 
assumes that the hypothetical transmission owner uses a single annual coincident peak demand (1 CP) to 
allocate the revenue requirement of the entire transmission system among the three hypothetical 
transmission customers. 

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
- 12 - 
 
half of the forecast usage, there will still be $0.1 billion in revenue requirement caused by 
the data center interconnections shifted to other wholesale customers.  

--- PAGE 13 ---

--- PAGE 14 ---
iii. Commission action is necessary to ensure just, reasonable, and not 
unduly discriminatory transmission rates.  
As explained above, large loads are driving significant transmission investments 
that directly impact Commission-jurisdictional rates and create massive stranded cost 
risks for wholesale transmission customers. Given the Commission’s statutory obligation 
to ensure that transmission rates subject to its jurisdiction are just, reasonable, and not 
unduly discriminatory, these impacts are squarely within the Commission’s authority to 
address.  
Although some utilities are addressing this issue at the retail level, retail 
approaches on their own are insufficient and incomplete. A clear example of why a 
federal solution is needed is AEP Ohio’s data center retail tariff recently approved by the 
Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (“PUCO”).16 That retail tariff ensures that AEP 
Ohio and its own retail customers are protected against massive stranded transmission 
costs caused by large data center loads. But, so far, AEP Ohio has failed to provide any 
mechanism to protect other wholesale transmission customers from such costs.  
AEP Ohio recognized significant and valid concerns about stranded transmission 
investments caused by new data center load, particularly potentially speculative data 
centers. AEP Ohio supported its original tariff filing with the following testimony:17 
AEP Ohio’s proposal is designed to mitigate the risk that 
transmission infrastructure will be built for speculative data 
center projects, and when it comes time to serve, the data 
center projects either will be cancelled or be using 
 
16 See In re Application of Ohio Power Co. for New Tariffs Related to Data Ctrs. & Mobile Data Ctrs., 
Docket No. 24-508-EL-ATA (Pub. Utils. Comm’n of Ohio July 9, 2025). 
17 Direct Testimony of Matthew S. McKenzie on Behalf of Ohio Power Co. at 4, In re Application of Ohio 
Power Co. for New Tariffs Related to Data Ctrs. & Mobile Data Ctrs., Docket No. 24-508-EL-ATA (Pub. 
Utils. Comm’n of Ohio May 13, 2024). Ultimately, the original tariff filing was revised as part of a 
stipulation agreed to among multiple parties to reflect the terms described in the remainder of this section. 
This stipulation was approved by the PUCO. 

--- PAGE 15 ---
 
- 15 - 
 
significantly less power than they had planned. If this 
happens, more of the costs of the transmission buildout will 
be borne by retail customers in the PJM region including 
AEP Ohio’s other customers. As described below, AEP 
Ohio’s proposed data center tariffs will require data centers 
to make long-term financial commitments – to have more 
skin in the game – to mitigate the risk that transmission 
infrastructure will be built for data centers but not needed.  
 
To address these concerns, AEP Ohio filed a retail tariff that, among other things, 
requires data center loads to pay at least 85% of the demand they subscribe to use (even if 
actual usage is less), includes exit fees and minimum contract terms, and mandates that 
data centers provide credit support terms to support these obligations.18 These measures 
are intended to encourage accurate load forecasting, facilitate right-sized transmission 
investment, and discourage speculative data center loads. For instance, the minimum 
charges and exit fees ensure payment by the data center even if the data center’s usage is 
less than expected or terminates before the expected term.  
Under AEP Ohio’s retail tariff, these measures protect only AEP Ohio’s own 
retail customers from these significant stranded transmission cost risks, leaving wholesale 
transmission customers exposed. The current AEP Ohio retail tariff contains no 
mechanism to protect wholesale transmission customers. And, unlike other utilities (see 
Part III.C.ii below), AEP Ohio has not filed any of its agreements with data centers at this 
Commission, and it has not committed to FERC that it will reflect in its transmission 
revenue requirement any payments it receives under the protective provisions of such 
agreements. Nor is relief available from the PUCO, which found that these potential cost 
 
18 In re Application of Ohio Power Co. for New Tariffs Related to Data Ctrs. & Mobile Data Ctrs., Docket 
No. 24-508-EL-ATA, Order P 46 (Pub. Utils. Comm’n of Ohio July 9, 2025) (summarizing the October 23, 
2024 stipulation (that PUCO approved) establishing AEP Ohio’s retail data center tariff).  

--- PAGE 16 ---
 
- 16 - 
 
impacts to wholesale transmission customers “are statutorily outside of [the Public Utility 
Commission of Ohio’s] intrastate purview.”19 
AEP Ohio’s retail-only approach directly impacts Buckeye through FERC-
jurisdictional rates. The simplified example in Table 1 above illustrates this point, with 
AEP Ohio in the role of “Host Utility” and Buckeye as one of the other wholesale 
transmission customers. In Table 1, the data center interconnections cause $1 billion in 
increased transmission revenue requirement. If the data center loads do not show up 
(Example #3 in Table 1), the “Host Utility” is allocated only $0.75 billion of those costs 
(with the rest allocated to other wholesale transmission customers). If the “Host Utility” 
recovers the full costs of the transmission revenue requirement increase caused by the 
data centers through the stranded cost protections included in its retail arrangements with 
the data centers, but does not apply those payments to the wholesale transmission revenue 
requirement, it will over-recover the costs the “Host Utility” is allocated in wholesale 
transmission rates ($1 billion from the data center compared to only $0.75 allocated in 
wholesale transmission rates). Even if the “Host Utility” in this example recovers only 
85% of the $1 billion in costs from the data centers through the stranded cost protections 
included in its retail arrangements, that would still exceed the costs the “Host Utility” is 
assigned in wholesale transmission rates in this example ($0.85 billion compared to $0.75 
billion).  
There is also an over-collection of data center-driven network upgrade costs from 
other wholesale transmission customers. Critically, absent some adjustment in wholesale 
transmission rates, none of the money the “Host Utility” recovers from the data center 
 
19 Id. P 132. 

--- PAGE 17 ---
 
- 17 - 
 
through its retail arrangements is used to offset the $0.25 billion stranded transmission 
costs allocated to other wholesale transmission customers under Commission-
jurisdictional rates. This example shows that as a wholesale transmission customer in the 
AEP Zone of PJM, Buckeye (and its members and their retail customers) could be stuck 
paying for transmission assets built for a large load that does not show up—
notwithstanding AEP Ohio’s retail data center tariff.  
It is absolutely essential that this Commission address these issues and cost 
shifting concerns at the federal level.20 Without Commission action, wholesale 
transmission customers like Buckeye have no direct ability to require data centers to bear 
their fair share of the costs they cause, as these data centers are not retail customers of 
Buckeye. The Commission is statutorily obligated to ensure just, reasonable, and not 
unduly discriminatory transmission rates, and large load interconnections are directly and 
significantly affecting these transmission rates. The Commission must take action to 
ensure all wholesale customers are protected against the real and significant transmission 
cost shifting risks posed by these large load interconnections.  
B. Buckeye supports the ANOPR’s Principles focused on holding large loads 
responsible for the costs they cause (Principles 8 and 4). 
Buckeye supports the Principles in the ANOPR that require the large load seeking 
to interconnect to the transmission system to be responsible for transmission costs at the 
wholesale level, thereby ensuring that other transmission customers, and their retail 
 
20 In addition, retail-only solutions are particularly inapt for these large data center concerns because 
(1) individual data centers’ sizes are so large as to have major impacts on Commission-jurisdictional rates, 
and (2) data centers are not evenly distributed across the service territories of various wholesale 
transmission owners in a zone or RTO. These unique characteristics require specific action by the 
Commission. 

--- PAGE 18 ---
 
- 18 - 
 
customers, are held harmless against stranded cost risk. Below, Buckeye specifically 
addresses Principles 8 and 4 of the ANOPR. 
i. Large Loads Should be Responsible for 100% of Transmission 
Costs they Cause (Principle 8). 
 
Principle 8 of the ANOPR states:21 
 
Load and hybrid facilities should be responsible for 100% of 
the network upgrades that they are assigned through the 
interconnection studies. [FERC] seek[s] comment on 
whether such costs should be offset through a crediting 
mechanism [as is done for generator interconnection-related 
network upgrades] and, if so, over how many years. 
 
Buckeye supports this common-sense Principle. Large loads should be 100% responsible 
for all network upgrades, which should be identified in the applicable interconnection 
studies for these large loads. In addition to network upgrades discussed in Principle 8, 
large loads should also be directly assigned 100% of the costs of all interconnection 
facilities and attachment facilities built to serve their load.22 
This approach of holding large loads directly responsible for the costs they cause 
is the most direct and sure way to protect other wholesale transmission customers from 
the unique risks of new data centers and other similar large load interconnections (e.g., 
enormous stranded costs). In addition, upfront payment addresses the risk that the large 
 
21 ANOPR, P 25.  
22 Buckeye supports the Commission’s proposal in this proceeding for the direct assignment to large loads 
the cost of all new network upgrades to data centers (as well expanding Principle 8 to include directly 
assigning interconnection facilities, metering, and attachment facilities) because of the unique attributes of 
data centers, including their unprecedented size, rapid pace of development, and risk of stranded costs. 
Buckeye continues to support the Commission’s presumption for the roll in of the cost of all other network 
transmission facilities necessary to serve traditional (non-data center) load growth. See, e.g., Pinnacle W. 
Cap. Corp., 133 FERC ¶ 61,034, P 8 n.16 (2010) (explaining that “[u]nder the Mansfield framework, 
transmission facilities are considered to be integrated [i.e., networked], thereby justifying rolled-in pricing, 
unless all five of the [Mansfield] factors are satisfied.” (citing Mansfield Mun. Elec. Dep’t. v. New England 
Power Co., Op. No. 454, 97 FERC ¶ 61,134 (2001), reh’g denied, Op. No. 454-A, 98 FERC ¶ 61,115 
(2002))). 

--- PAGE 19 ---
 
- 19 - 
 
load decides not to go forward with its planned data center and is unable to cover the 
costs of the transmission investments made to serve its load.23 
Assigning upfront costs to data centers is not an overly complex problem; indeed 
it mirrors the process already in place for large generator interconnections. Assigning 
these costs may require cluster studies to be run by the transmission owner and/or RTO, 
or other similar processes, to ensure fair allocation of costs for certain network upgrades 
built to serve multiple large load customers.24  
Buckeye supports coupling up-front payments with a crediting mechanism to 
allow transmission owners to roll these costs into rate base over time—provided that the 
crediting mechanism is designed to protect other wholesale transmission customers from 
stranded costs, as upfront payments are credited back and added to rate base. A crediting 
mechanism should be designed to address the particular characteristics and challenges of 
large loads, thereby ensuring that the credits do not shift the costs of these network 
upgrades to customers that did not cause them. 
Importantly, an appropriate crediting mechanism for this purpose will need to be 
different from the crediting mechanism used for large generator interconnections. The 
approach to crediting in the large generator interconnection context was merely a 
 
23 As noted above, upfront payment can also address the problem that, even if the data center load shows up 
as planned, other customers may pay higher transmission rates when the incremental cost of the 
transmission investments necessary to serve the data center load is higher than the average cost of the 
existing transmission system. This protection against increased rates is particularly important given the 
unique characteristics of large data center loads—e.g., the rapid pace of their growth, the huge size of 
individual data center loads, their uneven distribution, the uncertainty of their forecasts, along with the 
sheer magnitude of the network upgrades they require. Proposals that address only the stranded costs 
problem do not address the incremental cost problem in the way that upfront payment does. 
24 At a minimum, large loads should be held directly responsible for the direct interconnection and metering 
facilities required to serve them. These costs should be easily identifiable and allocable to the large loads, 
even if transmission system upgrades costs are not. 

--- PAGE 20 ---
 
- 20 - 
 
financing mechanism and never intended to address the kinds of risks to other customers 
raised by large loads such as data centers.25 Here, to produce just, reasonable, and not 
unduly discriminatory transmission rates, crediting should be specifically structured to 
avoid the cost shifts and stranded transmission cost risks posed by large data center loads. 
ii. Buckeye supports provisions to deter speculative requests 
(Principle 4). 
Principle 4 of the ANOPR states:26 
 
Like generating facilities, load and hybrid facilities should 
be subject to standardized study deposits, readiness 
requirements, and withdrawal penalties . . . [to] deter 
speculative projects. 
 
Buckeye also agrees that large load requests for interconnection should be subject 
to specified terms to deter speculative projects. Deterring speculative projects will 
improve load forecasts and right-size transmission investment. Study deposits, intended 
to cover the administrative costs of running studies or managing a large load 
interconnection queue, should be required and paid at the beginning of the application 
process to discourage speculative projects. Likewise, readiness requirements and 
withdrawal penalties are important for deterring speculative projects from clogging the 
queue and adding uncertainty and delay.    
While these kinds of requirements are useful in deterring speculative projects 
from beginning the study process—and the disruption caused by the withdrawal of 
 
25 See Standardization of Generator Interconnection Agreements and Procedures, Order No. 2003-A, 106 
FERC ¶ 61,220, P 582, order on reh’g, Order No. 2003-B, 109 FERC ¶ 61,287 (2004), order on reh’g, 
Order No. 2003-C, 111 FERC ¶ 61,401 (2005), aff’d sub nom. NARUC v. FERC, 475 F.3d 1277 (D.C. Cir. 
2007) (explaining that “[t]he Interconnection Customer’s upfront payment, with the associated credits and 
reimbursements, serves simply as a financing mechanism that is designed to facilitate the construction of 
the Network Upgrades” (emphasis added)). 
26 ANOPR, P 21.  

--- PAGE 21 ---
 
- 21 - 
 
interconnection requests during the study process—they are not sufficient to address the 
significant stranded cost issues described above. Those risks occur after the study process 
when significant transmissions have been made in order to serve anticipated large loads. 
These significant risks to other wholesale transmission customers should be addressed by 
upfront payment of 100% of the required transmission upgrades associated with the large 
load interconnection (with crediting if appropriately designed to protect other customers). 
To the extent that 100% of such upgrades are not paid upfront by large loads, the 
Commission should protect other wholesale transmission customers as discussed in 
Part III.C below. 
C. There are alternative approaches to large load cost accountability that the 
Commission could also use to protect other wholesale transmission customers 
(Principle 8). 
As noted above, Buckeye supports directly holding large loads like data centers 
responsible for transmission network upgrade costs (which can include crediting if 
appropriately designed), as contemplated in Principle 8 of the ANOPR. In addition, 
Buckeye supports also directly assigning to large loads 100% of the interconnection 
facilities and attachment facilities required to serve them. This approach of holding data 
centers directly responsible for the costs they cause is the most direct and effective way 
of protecting wholesale transmission customers from the unique risks of new data centers 
and other similar large load interconnections. Other commentors, however, may raise 
concerns with this approach. To the extent the Commission does not directly hold large 
loads responsible for these costs they cause through upfront payments, it should take 
alternative actions to ensure just, reasonable, and not unduly discriminatory transmission 
rates. 

--- PAGE 22 ---
 
- 22 - 
 
i. The Commission can protect other customers by holding the 
relevant wholesale transmission entity responsible for the network 
upgrade costs caused by the large load it has a retail relationship 
with for distribution and transmission purposes.  
One option would be to hold the relevant wholesale transmission entity 
responsible for the network upgrade costs caused by the large load it has a direct 
relationship with. While the nature and name of this relevant wholesale transmission 
entity will vary across regions, it is the entity that acts as the intermediary, for 
transmission purposes, between the large load and the transmission provider/transmission 
owner.  
For the AEP Zone of PJM example discussed above in Part III.A, AEP Ohio 
would be the relevant wholesale transmission entity for a data center that has a retail 
relationship with AEP Ohio for distribution and transmission purposes.27 AEP Ohio is the 
entity that is allocated a portion of the broader AEP Zone costs for purposes of 
Commission-jurisdictional transmission rates, and it is the entity that has a retail 
relationship with the large load for distribution and transmission purposes.28 
If the relevant wholesale transmission entity, like AEP Ohio, were responsible for 
the network upgrade costs caused by their retail customers seeking large load 
interconnections, that could both protect other wholesale transmission customers and still 
 
27 In AEP Ohio’s service territory, this is true regardless of whether the generation component of that retail 
service is provided by AEP Ohio pursuant to a Standard Service Offer (“SSO”) or a Competitive Retail 
Electric Service (“CRES”) provider. See In re Application of Ohio Power Co., Slip Opinion No. 2025-
Ohio-3034 (affirming that AEP Ohio can require transmission to be charged as a “non-bypassable” rider 
even if the retail customer obtains the generation component of its retail service through a CRES provider). 
See also Ohio Rev. Code § 4928.05 (“The commission shall adopt, for each electric distribution utility that 
provides customers with a standard service offer . . . a nonbypassable cost recovery mechanism relating to 
transmission.”). 
28 Buckeye understands that the AEP East transmission zone in PJM has the additional complexity of an 
inter-company agreement among AEP East Operating Companies further allocating wholesale transmission 
costs among them on a 12 CP basis before such costs are passed through from the AEP transmission zone 
in PJM to its various affiliated operating companies in the PJM zone. 

--- PAGE 23 ---
 
- 23 - 
 
allow a mechanism for ultimately holding large loads responsible for the costs they cause. 
For example, it could be assigned 100% of the network upgrades (as well as 
interconnection facilities and attachment facilities) required to serve its large load 
customer and make these upfront payments prior to construction.29 The relevant 
transmission entity would then be in the position to pass these same costs onto the retail 
large load pursuant to state- jurisdictional retail rate proceedings. 
There may be other ways, aside from upfront payments, that nevertheless hold the 
relevant wholesale transmission entity responsible for these costs. For instance, costs in 
the AEP Zone of PJM are currently allocated based on 1 CP, but that allocation 
methodology could be adjusted so that the relevant wholesale transmission entity is 
responsible (all or at a just and reasonable percentage) for the forecast load of its large 
load customer even if that large load fails to contribute to the 1 CP value. This would 
ensure that the failure of a large data center load to sustain demand at the level for which 
the network upgrades associated with the interconnection were planned does not result in 
other wholesale transmission customers bearing the costs of transmission facilities 
specifically built to serve that large load.  
Importantly, the relevant wholesale transmission entity is uniquely positioned to 
then recover these costs from the large retail load, thereby holding the large load 
ultimately responsible for these costs. Because the relevant wholesale entity has a retail 
relationship with the large load for distribution and transmission purposes, it can require 
 
29 As discussed above, a crediting mechanism could be implemented for the network upgrades funded 
upfront by the large load, provided that the crediting mechanism is structured to protect other wholesale 
transmission customers after the credit payments are included in the transmission owner’s rate base.  
Interconnection facilities and attachment facilities should be directly assigned to the large load and not rate 
based by the transmission owner. 

--- PAGE 24 ---
 
- 24 - 
 
the large load to be responsible for the costs through its retail arrangements with the large 
load.  
The AEP Ohio retail data center tariff described above illustrates how the relevant 
wholesale transmission entity can hold the large load responsible for costs it causes 
through retail arrangements. But the critical difference from the status quo is that AEP 
Ohio would be responsible for such costs for purposes of Commission-jurisdictional 
transmission rates, protecting other Commission-jurisdictional transmission rate 
customers (like Buckeye) from bearing the risk of stranded transmission costs.  
In other contexts, the Commission has approved similar mechanisms designed to 
hold particular entities responsible for their large load retail customers while protecting 
others. In the resource adequacy context, for example, the Commission approved a PJM 
tariff revision affecting how PJM calculates the capacity obligation of LSEs.30 “PJM 
explain[ed] that the proposal was spurred by the recent proliferation of data centers that 
are contributing to large additions of forecasted load concentrated within a specific 
wholesale metering area,” which led PJM to propose:31 
revisions [to] correct the issue wherein load adjustments 
that are specific to a zone/area have their associated 
forecasted capacity obligations spread pro rata over the 
entirety of the Zone, thereby causing misalignment between 
the forecasted and actual capacity obligations of individual 
LSEs—particularly where LSEs within a Zone are split 
between [Fixed Resource Requirement] entities and LSEs 
participating in the capacity market.  
 
At a high level, this proposal ensured that LSEs would not have their capacity obligations 
inappropriately inflated due to expected large loads of other LSEs in the same Zone 
 
30 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 188 FERC ¶ 61,200 (2024). 
31 Id. P 5. 

--- PAGE 25 ---
 
- 25 - 
 
through a change to the “equations for allocating Large Load Adjustments [to] more 
accurately assign capacity obligations to LSEs.”32 . 
Although this example addressed capacity obligations and certainly does not 
address all data center-related concerns (such as stranded transmission costs), it 
highlights how the unique challenges of large loads can be addressed by holding the 
specific wholesale entity associated with those large loads responsible for the burdens 
they cause. This example illustrates how, given the size and uneven distribution of data 
center loads, a socialized approach to data center demand, whether in the capacity or 
transmission context, is no longer acceptable, nor just and reasonable. 
ii. The Commission should at minimum require that the results of any 
ratepayer protections implemented at the retail level for stranded 
transmission costs associated with Commission-jurisdictional 
transmission service are reflected in Commission-jurisdictional 
transmission rates.  
Buckeye believes that holding large loads directly responsible for the network 
upgrades they cause, or holding their relevant wholesale transmission entity responsible, 
is the best way to protect other customers in a clear and consistent manner.  But at a 
minimum (and as a transition mechanism before upfront funding measures take effect, as 
discussed in Part III.D below), the Commission must ensure that any existing retail-level 
protections against the risks of stranded costs of Commission-jurisdictional transmission 
service resulting from large loads will be reflected and accounted for in Commission-
jurisdictional rates. Doing so will provide at least some assurances that other wholesale 
transmission customers will not bear the costs caused by large load interconnections.  
 
32 Id. P 37 

--- PAGE 26 ---
 
- 26 - 
 
One way to do this is through the filing of agreements between the public utility 
and the large load with the Commission, to ensure that there are sufficient protective 
measures and that those protective measures will be reflected in Commission-
jurisdictional transmission rates. This approach has already been taken by several 
utilities. 
 Dayton Power & Light d/b/a AES Ohio (“AES”) filed two Construction 
Agreements with Amazon Data Services (“Amazon”), requiring Amazon 
to meet certain minimum charges and early termination fees, supported by 
credit security provisions. Importantly, in its filing, AES committed to the 
Commission that it would apply any minimum charges and exit fees 
obtained from its agreement with Amazon to offset stranded transmission 
investments in its wholesale revenue requirement.33 These Agreements 
were accepted by FERC, with then-Commissioner Christie emphasizing 
“the clear intent of the parties is for Amazon Data Services, Inc., not other 
consumers, to pay for the costs of the Transmission Customer New or 
Upgraded Service Construction Service Agreement (CSA).”34 
 PECO Energy Company (“PECO”) filed a Transmission Security 
Agreement (“TSA”) with Amazon at FERC in September 2025.35 The 
agreement was similar to the AES filing in that it required Amazon to 
meet certain minimum charges and early termination fees, and PECO 
committed to apply such payments to offset stranded transmission 
 
33 Specifically, AES stated that:  
In order to avoid the potential for double recovery of Network Upgrade costs, AES Ohio 
agrees that, if the Network Upgrade costs are rolled into its transmission rates under 
Attachment H-15 of the PJM OATT and if Amazon subsequently makes a payment to AES 
Ohio of the Network Upgrade costs incurred under Section 8 of the CSA (other than the 
payment for Project Development costs), AES Ohio will appropriately reflect Amazon’s 
payment in its transmission cost of service under Attachment H-15. However, rate 
treatment of such proceeds should be appropriately addressed in a future AES Ohio rate 
case, not this proceeding. 
AES Ohio, Transmission Customer New or Upgraded Service Construction Service Agreement, 
Transmittal Letter at 9 n.18, Dayton Power and Light Co., Docket No. ER25-192 (Oct. 23, 2024), eLibrary 
No. 20241023-5154 (emphasis added). Similar language appears in AES’s second filing. See AES Ohio, 
New or Upgraded High Voltage Distribution Service Construction Service Agreement, Transmittal Letter 
at 8 n.17, Dayton Power & Light Co., Docket No. ER25-2427 (June 4, 2025), eLibrary No. 20250604-
5116. 
34 Dayton Power & Light Co., 189 FERC ¶ 61,220, P 1 (2024) (Christie, Comm’r, concurring) (emphasis 
removed). 
35 PECO, Transmission Security Agreement between PECO Energy Company and Amazon Data Services, 
Inc., PECO Energy Co., Docket No. ER25-3492 (Sep. 23, 2025), eLibrary No. 20250923-5131 (“PECO 
Filing”).  

--- PAGE 27 ---
 
- 27 - 
 
investments in its wholesale revenue requirement.36 PECO stated that 
absent an approved TSA other customers may end up being responsible 
for significant additional costs should “the Data Center (and its 
contribution to transmission revenue requirement) not achieve commercial 
operation or take the minimum level of service as and where proposed.”37 
The TSA prevents customers from bearing those costs by ensuring that the 
new Data Center load is accompanied by enforceable financial and 
operational commitments that protect other customers from transmission 
cost shift exposure.38 This filing is pending approval by FERC.  
 
Commonwealth Edison (“ComEd”) filed a retail tariff at the Illinois 
Commerce Commission (“ICC”) in June 2025 indicating that it intended 
to follow the same approach as PECO and require large loads to file TSAs 
at FERC containing minimum charges, early termination fees, and credit 
support provisions, and committing to apply any revenues received under 
the agreement against the wholesale transmission revenue requirement.39 
ComEd stated in its filing that the TSA “will ensure that if a Large 
Demand Project Applicant or Customer fails to meet its requested load 
ramp or does not materialize at all, the resulting revenue shortfall, which 
could be financially significant, is not borne by other customers. It will 
also ensure that ComEd’s FERC-jurisdictional and Illinois-jurisdictional 
tariffs are in sync and will prevent potential customer confusion.”40 The 
tariff is pending approval at the ICC.  
 
FirstEnergy made a filing in the Pennsylvania Public Utilities 
Commission’s en banc case to consider retail interconnection 
requirements and retail tariffs for large load customers that supported the 
AES approach. FirstEnergy stated that it intends to follow a similar 
approach to AES and address stranded transmission costs from large loads 
in construction service agreements filed with FERC. FirstEnergy stated it 
has developed such an agreement that would be signed by the data center, 
the distribution utility, and the transmission utility and would include a 
 
36 Id., Transmittal Letter at 11 n.48 (“In order to avoid the potential for double recovery of the costs of 
transmission facilities used to provide delivery services to Amazon, PECO agrees that, if these costs are 
rolled into its transmission rates under Attachment H-7 of the PJM Tariff and if Amazon subsequently 
makes a payment to PECO as a result of a Customer Shortfall Event, PECO will appropriately reflect 
Amazon’s payment in its transmission cost of service under Attachment H-7. However, rate treatment of 
such proceeds should be appropriately addressed in a future PECO proceeding (i.e., its annual formula rate 
updates), not this proceeding.”).  
37 Id. at 2. 
38 Id. at 6. 
39 Commonwealth Edison Co., Revised General Terms and Conditions, Docket No. ERM-25-109 (Ill. Com. 
Comm’n June 23, 2025), https://icc.illinois.gov/docket/P2025-0677/documents/368012.  
40 Id. at 4.  

--- PAGE 28 ---
 
- 28 - 
 
minimum demand ratchet.41 FirstEnergy also noted that any load shortfalls 
below the minimum demand ratchets contained in the construction service 
agreement would be “credited against the transmission owner’s formula 
rate revenue requirement to the benefit of all customers.”42  
As many of these agreements make explicit, it is necessary for such payments 
made by large data centers (e.g., minimum payments, exit fees, etc.) to be reflected in 
Commission-jurisdictional transmission rates to prevent over recovery by the 
transmission owner (“Host Utility” in the example above based on Table 1).43 Otherwise, 
as discussed above in Part III.A.iii, these public utilities over recover by recovering 
stranded transmission costs directly from a data center at retail and recovering a portion 
of these same stranded costs from wholesale transmission customers. This over recovery 
is a clear violation of basic ratemaking principles for Commission-jurisdictional rates that 
the Commission has a clear responsibility to prevent. And the Commission’s acceptance 
of the two AES-Amazon agreements confirms the Commission’s jurisdiction over these 
agreements to the extent that they affect Commission-jurisdictional transmission 
service.44  
 
41 See FirstEnergy et al., Joint Comments at 19-25, En Banc Hearing Concerning Interconnection & Tariffs 
for Large Load Customers, Docket No. M-2025-3054271 (Pa. Pub. Util. Comm’n June 6, 2025), 
https://www.puc.pa.gov/pcdocs/1882403.pdf (describing rate design considerations and explaining that its 
proposal is modeled after AES’s). 
42 Id. at 24. 
43 In the examples of agreements filed at FERC, the “Host Utility” is also a transmission owner that 
recovers its transmission revenue requirement through Commission-jurisdictional rates. Thus, their letters 
to FERC use the term “double recovery,” as they could both recover costs from the data center and recover 
a portion of the same costs through Commission-jurisdictional rates from wholesale transmission 
customers.  
44 See also PECO Filing at 1 n.5 (“As described below, Amazon will be a PECO retail customer that will 
not take transmission service under the PJM [OATT] but will be served exclusively under PECO’s existing 
state jurisdictional retail tariff. However, the TSA is being filed under FPA section 205 because its 
provisions may be construed as affecting rates and practices for FERC jurisdictional transmission 
service.”). 

--- PAGE 29 ---
 
- 29 - 
 
Again, Buckeye believes that the best way to protect other customers from unjust, 
unreasonable, and unduly discriminatory transmission rates is by holding large loads 
directly responsible for the costs they cause (or if the large loads are not directly 
responsible, the relevant wholesale transmission entity is held responsible). Relying on 
agreements with the large data centers—even with assurances that the results of such 
agreements will be reflected in Commission-jurisdictional rates—could create a 
patchwork of protections and a more burdensome process of reviewing individual 
agreements. Nevertheless, at least until more standard protections and cost responsibility 
mechanisms are established, the Commission must at minimum require that any 
protective provisions in retail agreements with large loads have their results reflected in 
Commission-jurisdictional rates to prevent double recovery and protect all other 
wholesale transmission customers.  
D. The Commission should use the alternative approaches described in Part 
III.C as a transition mechanism to ensure that large load interconnections 
already being studied do not result in cost shifts to other customers 
(Principle 13). 
Principle 13 of the ANOPR states that “there must be a plan to implement these 
proposed reforms. We seek comment on appropriate transition plans, including the 
treatment of large load interconnections that are already being studied for 
interconnection.”45 As shown above, the impact of large load interconnections on 
Commission-jurisdictional transmission rates is already happening. Huge transmission 
investments are being made to serve data center load. The Commission must act to ensure 
 
45 ANOPR, P 30 (emphasis added). 

--- PAGE 30 ---
 
- 30 - 
 
just, reasonable, and not unduly discriminatory rates, including with respect to large load 
interconnections already being studied.  
To the extent it does not implement Principle 8 with respect to large load 
interconnections already being studied, the Commission should use the alternative 
approach described in Part III.C.ii above as a transition mechanism for these large loads. 
Indeed, as discussed in Part III.C.ii, the Commission has already implemented this 
approach in individual cases. The Commission can and should use this alternative 
approach to large load interconnection already being studied to ensure that transmission 
rates are just, reasonable, and not unduly discriminatory in any period prior to the 
implementation of new rules consistent with ANOPR Principle 8.  
IV. 
CONCLUSION 
Buckeye requests that the Commission give full consideration to these comments 
and concerns in connection with its advance notice of proposed rulemaking addressing 
large load interconnections. 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Kurt P. Helfrich___
Kurt P. Helfrich
General Counsel 
Lija Kaleps-Clark 
Deputy General Counsel
Buckeye Power, Inc.
6677 Busch Boulevard
Columbus, Ohio 43229
Telephone: (614) 681-5151
khelfrich@ohioec.org  
lkaleps@ohioec.org 
Counsel for Buckeye Power, Inc.
Dated:  November 21, 2025 
