--- PAGE 1 ---
 
1 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
 
) 
Interstate Transmission System 
 
 
) 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
) 
 
 
COMMENTS OF  
THE CALIFORNIA INDEPENDENT SYSTEM OPERATOR CORPORATION  
ON THE ADVANCED NOTICE OF PROPOSED RULEMAKING 
 
The California Independent System Operator Corporation (“CAISO”) submits 
these comments in response to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s 
(“Commission”) Notice Inviting Comments, issued on October 27, 2025, regarding the  
Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) released on October 23, 2025 in 
the captioned docket.1   
 
I. 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
 
The CAISO shares the ANOPR’s stated goals of ensuring the timely and orderly 
interconnection of large loads while respecting States’ exclusive jurisdiction over retail 
electricity sales, the siting and expansion of generation facilities, and distribution 
infrastructure.  The CAISO acknowledges the jurisdictional concerns raised in the 
ANOPR itself and by States in response,2 and understands that large loads present a 
unique set of challenges because, while they are retail customers, they interconnect 
directly to the transmission system and can impact reliability in ways comparable to 
 
1  
Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein have the meaning set forth in the CAISO tariff, 
and references to specific sections, articles, and appendices are references to sections, articles, and 
appendices in the current CAISO tariff unless otherwise indicated. 
2  
https://pubs.naruc.org/pub/2C526A94-D533-BE0A-336A-178A366C7A91.  

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
2 
 
large wholesale generators.  The CAISO does not opine on the jurisdictional legal 
issues large loads present, but is confident that they will be resolved consistent with the 
Federal Power Act, including its respect for States’ rights.  The CAISO offers these 
comments to the Commission, States, NERC, and other policymakers to explain the 
challenges large loads present to grid and market operators like the CAISO, and the 
reforms the CAISO believes are necessary to ensure reliability, affordability, and 
efficient markets.  As the home of Silicon Valley, California has led the way in facilitating 
technology and data centers.  The CAISO is eager to work with policymakers to 
continue these efforts.  The CAISO believes collaboration among the Commission, 
States, transmission providers, and industry stakeholders will remain essential to 
facilitate the timely interconnection of large loads.  To this end, the CAISO generally 
agrees with several of the substantive principles outlined in the ANOPR, and views 
them as measured and equitable.  Reforms grounded in the existing rules and 
procedures applicable to large, transmission-connected generators can be a pragmatic 
approach that can benefit the broader industry by providing consistency and clarity in 
the interconnection process for large loads. 
 
II. 
COMMENTS 
A. 
Large Loads’ Impact on Reliability and the Wholesale Markets 
 
 
As an independent system operator, balancing authority, and reliability 
coordinator, the CAISO’s foremost responsibility is maintaining reliability across the 
Western interconnection.  Large loads directly interconnected to the transmission 
system have a direct and substantial impact on that responsibility.   

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
3 
 
Large loads present new challenges for long-term planning, short-term forecasting, 
and grid stability.  NERC has already described these challenges in detail,3 finding, inter 
alia: 
 “Many emerging large loads differ technologically from past industrial loads, 
leading to significant uncertainty in modeling their behavior and consumption 
profiles.”4 
 “[H]igh-intensity electrical processing loads . . . often experience frequent on-off 
cycles, causing large, random fluctuations in consumption.  Such behavior can 
lead to dispatch errors, shutting down units prematurely, committing units that 
are not needed, and generally causing balancing issues.”5 
 “Large rapid changes in demand will also rapidly alter the flow of reactive power 
in the system, potentially exceeding the ability of existing voltage controls to 
respond and lead to over- and undervoltage conditions. This could lead to the 
unplanned outages of generation plants initiated by voltage-ride through 
protection, load loss related to undervoltage load shedding, or even more 
widespread outages caused by voltage instability and collapse.”6  
 “If enough large load energizes and is not tripped off-line, the frequency may 
become low enough that generators trip off-line due to underfrequency 
protection.  If this occurs, frequency instability and widespread outages are a 
 
3  
NERC, “Characterization and Risks of Emerging Large Loads,” at 15 et seq., July 2025, 
https://www.nerc.com/comm/RSTCReviewItems/3_Doc_White%20Paper%20Characteristics%20and%20
Risks%20of%20Emerging%20Large%20Loads.pdf.  
4  
Id. at 18. 
5  
Id. 
6  
Id. at 20. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
4 
 
serious possibility as each generator that trips off-line further reduces the 
system’s ability to halt the decline in frequency.”7 
NERC is raising legitimate concerns.  There have already been instances of large loads’ 
impact on reliability in the Eastern Interconnection.8  Because grid operators must keep 
supply and demand perfectly balanced at all times, large loads present the same issues 
to reliability as large generators.   
 
Large loads’ direct impact on wholesale markets likewise is considerable.  
Sudden or sustained demand spikes from data centers directly impact transmission 
congestion, resulting in more volatile pricing.  Grid operators must procure additional 
reserves, fast-ramping resources, and frequency response to address the contingencies 
of demand fluctuations or sudden unplanned outages from large loads.  And large loads 
will require more generating capacity and transmission capacity to meet demand.   
 
B. 
Principles for Reform 
1. 
Definition 
 
 
The ANOPR proposes that Commission reform would be limited to 
interconnections directly to the transmission system, using the seven-factor test.9  For 
any reform, the CAISO supports the use of clear, well-defined lines the industry already 
uses and understands.  As the Commission, States, and transmission providers work to 
interconnect large loads, they should use easily understandable rules rather than 
 
7  
Id. at 25. 
8  
See, e.g., NERC, “Incident Review: Considering Simultaneous Voltage-Sensitive Load 
Reductions,” 
https://www.nerc.com/pa/rrm/ea/Documents/Incident_Review_Large_Load_Loss.pdf#search=load%20los
s%20data%20center.  
9  
ANOPR at P 18.  

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
5 
 
complex standards to reduce regulatory uncertainty.  The CAISO agrees that large 
loads on the transmission system should be a priority: Because the largest loads will 
require the voltages only the transmission system can provide, they present greater 
challenges than loads that will connect to distribution systems.  The CAISO supports the 
ANOPR principle coupled with the Commission’s other qualifications in the ANOPR and 
its recent decision in Tri-State Generation and Transmission Association, namely, that 
“a regulation that ‘specifies terms of sale at retail’ would exceed the Commission’s 
authority under the FPA,” regardless of the level of interconnection. 
 
2. 
20 MW Threshold 
 
The ANOPR proposes that its reforms should only apply to new loads greater 
than 20 MW and, for hybrid facilities, where the load is greater than 20 MW.10  The 
CAISO appreciates this clear demarcation: Any final rule should have a clear, easily 
understandable rule for identifying large loads, tailored to the specific challenges the 
Rule is intended to address.  Although a broad standard like the definition in the NERC 
white paper avoids false positives and false negatives in theory,11 such standards are 
difficult to apply in practice and often lead to disputes.  The 20 MW threshold has 
proven to be a reliable figure to assess the risk a generation or storage facility 
represents to the transmission grid.  For grid operators and planners, loads present the 
same challenges as generators in maintaining the balance between supply and 
 
10  
ANOPR at P 19. 
11  
Only for purposes of its discussion in the white paper, NERC used the large load definition, “Any 
commercial or industrial individual load facility or aggregation of load facilities at a single site behind one 
or more point(s) of interconnection that can pose reliability risks to the BPS due to its demand, 
operational characteristics, or other factors.”  NERC would likely agree that such a definition would be 
impractical in a final rule, reliability standard, or tariff, requiring a “I know it when I see it” approach. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
6 
 
demand, so sharing the same threshold is sensible.  Although any demarcation will 
affect development to some extent, much higher MW thresholds may incentivize 
developers to create multiple facilities each right under the limit to avoid jurisdiction, 
rather than a single facility that benefits the facility and the grid from economy of scale.  
The 20 MW threshold avoids this incentive without creating barriers to smaller facilities.  
 
3. 
Coordinated Studies 
 
 
The ANOPR proposes that jurisdictional utilities should study load and hybrid 
facilities together with generating facilities.12  Today, transmission providers must  
account for co-located retail loads subject to state-jurisdictional tariffs but using FERC-
jurisdictional tariffs for generator interconnections.  For example, the CAISO tariff 
currently does not have a mechanism to consider large loads in the generator 
interconnection study process.  Providing a single study process for large load, hybrid, 
and generating facilities may simplify many aspects for transmission providers and 
developers.  At the same time, it could introduce new complexities to the 
interconnection study process and transmission planning process, both of which have 
been significantly reformed by recent Commission orders.  The longstanding approach 
of enabling transmission providers to propose tailored processes to meet regional 
needs under the independent entity standard will allow transmission providers to tailor 
their studies to ensure the orderly and timely interconnection of large loads. 
The CAISO works closely with utilities and State energy agencies to incorporate 
large loads into its transmission planning process, which is integrated into the generator 
 
12  
ANOPR at P 20. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
7 
 
interconnection process.  As set out in a 2022 Memorandum of Understanding, the 
California Energy Commission (CEC) develops a long-term statewide energy demand 
forecast, which incorporates information from utilities across the ISO footprint.13 The 
CEC’s demand forecast includes large loads mapped to substation locations used in the 
CAISO’s transmission studies.  Using the CEC’s forecast, the California Public Utilities 
Commission (CPUC) provides resource planning information to the CAISO for its annual 
transmission planning process. The CAISO also receives resource planning information 
from publicly owned utilities.  The CAISO uses these inputs to develop a final 
transmission plan and initiate development of the recommended transmission projects. 
Developers and stakeholders then use the transmission plan to understand where new 
transmission will be constructed and what capacity will be available.  The CAISO 
explained these processes in detail in a letter responding to Commissioner Rosner’s 
inquiry to ISO/RTOs.  Currently, the CAISO, CPUC, and CEC forecasts and planning 
information indicate that there is and will be adequate generating capacity to meet 
increasing demand from large load growth.  
 
4. 
Study Requirements 
 
The ANOPR proposes that, like generating facilities, load and hybrid facilities 
should be subject to standardized study deposits, readiness requirements, and 
withdrawal penalties.14  The CAISO supports this proposal, and recommends that if the 
Commission ultimately mandates specific reforms on this area, that any final rule enable 
 
13  
https://www.caiso.com/documents/iso-cec-and-cpuc-memorandum-of-understanding-dec-
2022.pdf.  
14  
ANOPR at P 21.  

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
8 
 
transmission providers to align the large load processes with the processes 
transmission providers have established in complying with Order No. 2023.  Having the 
flexibility to align any large load processes with reforms already accepted and 
implemented by transmission providers in close coordination with their State 
policymakers will further the goals of the ANOPR.  Large load interconnection studies 
may require specific mechanisms for transmission owners experienced in conducting 
such studies, as well as mechanisms to avoid the State-jurisdictional concerns that led 
to the Commission’s rejecting the rules proposed in Tri-State.  This flexibility will 
facilitate a faster compliance process to help large loads interconnect as soon as 
possible and with greater regulatory certainty.  
 
5. 
Study Assumptions 
 
The ANOPR proposes that hybrid facilities should be studied based on the 
amount of injection and/or withdrawal rights requested.15  For example, a hybrid facility 
consisting of a 500 MW load and a 600 MW generating facility may seek no withdrawal 
rights and 100 MW of injection rights.  The CAISO generally supports this proposal so 
long as it remains strongly coupled with principle six to maintain reliability.  Hybrid 
facilities that have strict, unwavering protections like circuit breakers at their point of 
interconnection should be allowed to have network upgrades based on their net rights 
requested.  This will save ratepayers and developers from unnecessary costs and help 
to avoid long construction timelines.  Without such protection facilities, however, it would 
not be possible to interconnect hybrid facilities safely and reliably.  The generator or 
 
15  
ANOPR at P 22. 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
9 
 
load could go offline, causing more demand or energy to hit the grid than what the 
interconnection studies contemplated.  This would have significant safety and reliability 
implications no financial penalty could later remedy. 
In other words, the ANOPR’s use of the term “study” is problematic.  The CAISO 
understands the intent of this principle to mean that hybrid facilities with strict 
injection/withdrawal protections should be able to interconnect with only those network 
upgrades necessary based on the requested net rights.  This is similar to how large 
generators can request less interconnection capacity than actual generating capacity so 
long as they install protection facilities at this point of interconnection.  Any final rule 
should clarify that transmission providers still must have detailed modeling information 
to “study” the full load and generating capabilities of each individual part of the facility.  
Conducting short-circuit duty contribution and dynamic stability studies, for example, is 
not possible without detailed models of the individual generators and loads at the site.  
In order to assign the correct protection facilities consistent with principle six, the 
transmission provider must study the gross, not net, components of the facility.  Having 
more data in the interconnection study inputs will enable faster and more reliable 
interconnections for large loads. 
 
6. 
Protection Facilities 
 
The ANOPR proposes that any hybrid interconnection shall be required to install 
the system protection facilities necessary to prevent unauthorized injections or 
withdrawals that exceed the respective rights.16  The ANOPR also seeks comment on 
 
16  
ANOPR at P 23. 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
10 
 
whether other operational limitations should be considered, and the minimum technical 
requirements for such system protection facilities.17  The CAISO believes this principle 
is among the most critical to establish.  As NERC has already demonstrated, large 
loads can affect frequency, voltage, and power quality just as large generators do.18  
The CAISO thus recommends the applicable operational requirements from Section 9 of 
the pro forma Large Generator Interconnection Procedures on large loads, as an 
example of useful rules already vetted by the industry.  This will ensure that large loads 
do not affect reliability, nor pass undue costs to generators, utilities, and other 
ratepayers to make up the difference from large loads’ impact on the grid.   
The CAISO also recommends that any reform include the requirement that large 
loads provide load profiles and expected behavior models as part of the interconnection 
process.  Many large loads, such as artificial intelligence training centers, operate in 
novel ways that impact the grid.  Transmission providers and stakeholders will need 
operational data to understand how these large loads can impact reliability.  To support 
reliable operations and planning, large loads should be required to submit detailed 
steady-state, dynamic (RMS), and, for certain facilities, electromagnetic transient (EMT) 
models reflecting expected demand behavior, similar to the modeling requirements 
currently applied to inverter-based generators. This includes representation of load 
ramps, start-up sequences, step-change behavior, and harmonic characteristics. 
 
17  
Id. 
18  
NERC, “Characterization and Risks of Emerging Large Loads,” at 15 et seq., July 2025, 
https://www.nerc.com/comm/RSTCReviewItems/3_Doc_White%20Paper%20Characteristics%20and%20
Risks%20of%20Emerging%20Large%20Loads.pdf. 

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
11 
 
Similarly, large loads should be required to provide transmission providers with 
real-time direct telemetry and outage schedules.  Transmission providers like the 
CAISO currently have limited visibility into the operations of any specific end user.    
Each large load can have a singular impact on reliability and markets because of their 
capacity and direct interconnection to the transmission grid.  Transmission providers 
thus need a similar level of visibility of large loads as they have for large generators.  
The CAISO recommends that any final rule require large loads and hybrid facilities to 
provide transmission providers with real-time telemetry at the component level.  This 
would enable transmission providers to monitor performance of the large load and any 
generating units on the facility, just as transmission providers do today for large 
generators. Given the scale of these facilities, providing telemetry would be a minor cost 
with significant benefits to reliability.  The CAISO does not believe that large loads need 
scheduling coordinators unless the large loads or co-located generators intend to be 
dispatchable or participate in the wholesale markets. 
The ANOPR also seeks comment on whether a hybrid interconnection customer 
should be subject to penalties for unauthorized injections or withdrawals, how any such 
penalties should be designed, and how such penalties should be allocated to other 
transmission customers.19  Again, the CAISO believes that large loads and hybrid 
facilities should be under the same rules as large generators.  The CAISO’s experience 
with large generators demonstrates that specific penalties for unauthorized injections or 
withdrawals are unnecessary.  System protection facilities should physically prevent 
injections or withdrawals that substantially impact the transmission system, including 
 
19  
Id. 

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
12 
 
circuit breakers that would isolate the facility from the grid before it could affect 
reliability.  For other unauthorized behavior, transmission providers can report the 
facility to the Commission’s Office of Enforcement and other regulatory enforcement 
agencies.  
 
7. 
Curtailable and Hybrid Timelines 
 
The ANOPR proposes that the interconnection study of large loads that agree to 
be curtailable and hybrid facilities that agree to be curtailable and dispatchable should 
be expedited.20  The CAISO agrees that it is generally easier to study and interconnect 
curtailable facilities compared to firm loads and non-curtailable facilities; however the 
details of how such resources would or could be expedited deserves careful 
consideration to prevent unintended delays to other projects and processes.  The ability 
to curtail and dispatch these facilities gives transmission providers many tools to 
maintain reliability that firm and non-curtailable facilities lack, especially the ability to 
curtail the facility in the event of a grid contingency.  An expedited process would 
appropriately incentivize more developers to consider curtailable and dispatchable 
facilities, which ultimately will benefit large loads, the grid, and ratepayers.  Although the 
specific grid topology will always be a key factor, firm and non-curtailable facilities will 
usually require more network upgrades and system protections to maintain reliability.   
The CAISO recommends that any final rule should establish distinct “lanes” 
based on the level of dispatch tools the transmission provider will have—all, some, or 
none.  For example, for the most “expedited” interconnection, large loads would have to 
 
20  
ANOPR at P 24. 

--- PAGE 13 ---
 
13 
 
be completely curtailable or dispatchable.  In other words, being curtailable on some 
hours or on some days or for only a portion of the load or generating capacity should 
not allow a facility to avail itself of the same expedited process as completely curtailable 
facilities. 
The ANOPR also seeks comment on whether this curtailable large load studies 
should be accomplished through a serial interconnection study process or by some 
other means; and whether such studies can be completed in 60 days.  The CAISO 
defers to its transmission owners on these questions because they have extensive 
experience with large load studies. 
 
8. 
Cost Responsibility 
 
The ANOPR proposes that load and hybrid facilities should be responsible for 
100% of the network upgrades that they are assigned through the interconnection 
studies.21  The ANOPR also seeks comment on whether such costs should be offset 
through a crediting mechanism and, if so, over how many years.  The CAISO generally 
defers to States and their experience with load ratemaking on this issue; however, the 
CAISO requests that any final rule provide clear guidance on cost responsibility for 
hybrid facilities: Separating which network upgrades were required by a generator and 
which network upgrades were required by a co-located large load is impractical, if at all 
possible for some types of upgrades.  Any final rule should at a minimum establish 
which cost responsibility rules apply to hybrid facilities: those for generators or those for 
large loads.   The CAISO also recommends that the Commission and States clarify how 
 
21  
ANOPR at P 25. 

--- PAGE 14 ---
 
14 
 
any final rule applies for generating facilities engaged in wholesale sales co-located with 
large loads compared to generating facilities that only serve the co-located large loads. 
 
9. 
Equal Access 
 
The ANOPR proposes that to the extent the interconnection customer is not the 
transmission owner, the interconnection customer shall be afforded the same (or 
equivalent) option to build as currently provided to generator interconnection 
customers.22  The CAISO supports this proposal, as equal access is a foundational 
requirement for transmission providers.  The CAISO also notes that in situations where 
the CAISO transmission planning process identifies new network upgrades to support 
federal, State, or local public policies to enable large loads, those network upgrades 
would be subject to the same competitive solicitation rules as other public policy 
network upgrades.23 
 
10. 
Partial Suspensions to Accommodate Large Loads 
 
The ANOPR proposes that an existing generating facility that seeks to enter a 
partial suspension to serve a new load at the same location must go through a system 
support resource (SSR)/reliability must run (RMR) type study.24  The ANOPR also 
invites comments on whether and how resource adequacy should be considered in the 
SSR/RMR type study.  The CAISO supports this proposal.  The CAISO notes that its 
 
22  
ANOPR at P 26. 
23  
See Section 24.5.1 of the CAISO tariff. 
24  
ANOPR at P 27.  (“The study must consider system conditions, including forecasted load growth, 
at least three years after the proposed suspension date.  The partial suspension can only proceed after 
any network upgrades needed to ensure reliability are placed into service.  Any such network upgrades 
shall be the responsibility of the generating facility.”) 

--- PAGE 15 ---
 
15 
 
reliability must run studies account for local and system capacity to ensure reliability.  
Local capacity needs are among the common reasons for designating a reliability must 
run resource, so they should be included in any study for a generator electing to change 
its participation model.  Excluding capacity issues, especially on a local reliability level, 
could jeopardize reliability in the short-term until replacement generation comes online. 
 
11. 
Transmission Service 
 
The ANOPR proposes that utilities serving large loads, including those at hybrid 
facilities, should be responsible for transmission service based on their withdrawal 
rights, as that value amount reflects the quantity of capacity and energy that is being 
transmitted across the transmission system to the load.25  The CAISO supports this 
proposal and encourages providing flexibility to transmission providers and utilities to 
develop planning processes appropriately.  Correctly incentivizing large load developers 
to right-size their withdrawal and injection rights will help States, transmission planners, 
and load-serving entities avoid unnecessary network upgrades and additional 
generation procurement at ratepayers’ expense.  Incentivizing hybrid facilities to inject 
more energy or curtail demand at key times, especially for contingencies, will do the 
same. 
 
12. 
Ancillary Services 
 
The ANOPR proposes that utilities serving large loads, including those at hybrid 
facilities, should be responsible for ancillary services based on peak demand, without 
 
25  
ANOPR at P 28. 

--- PAGE 16 ---
 
16 
 
consideration of any co-located generation.26  The ANOPR states that any co-located 
generating facilities will similarly be fully compensated for the provision of ancillary 
services.  The CAISO supports this proposal as all load using the transmission grid 
should be responsible for procuring ancillary services.  At the same time, the ANOPR 
appropriately incentivizes co-located generation to provide ancillary services when able 
to do so. 
 
13. 
Transition Plan 
 
The ANOPR proposes that there must be a plan to implement these proposed 
reforms.27  The ANOPR also seeks comment on appropriate transition plans, including 
the treatment of large load interconnections that are already being studied for 
interconnection.  The CAISO supports this proposal, and recommends an approach 
similar to the transition mechanisms used in Order No. 2023.  Order No. 2023 provided 
pro forma transitional mechanisms and timelines, but still afforded transmission 
providers broad discretion to transition to the new rules based on their individual 
circumstances.28  Similar flexibility will enable transmission providers and developers to 
ensure the timely and orderly interconnection of large loads.  
 
 
26  
ANOPR at P 29. 
27  
ANOPR at P 30.  
28  
For example, the Commission approved the CAISO and New York ISO’s (NYISO) elections to 
forego transitional groups and extra time afforded to transition.  See California Independent System 
Operator Corp., 191 FERC ¶ 61,119 at P 143 (2025); New York Independent System Operator Inc., 191 
FERC ¶ 61,049 at P 397 (2025).  The Commission accepted the CAISO and NYISO proposed effective 
dates for their new procedures on the days immediately after their respective filings. 

--- PAGE 17 ---
 
17 
 
14. 
NERC Requirements 
 
The ANOPR proposes that utilities serving large loads must meet all applicable 
NERC reliability standards and OATT provisions.29  The ANOPR states that “Utilities 
and we must be prepared to revise large load interconnection procedures and 
agreements, as necessary.”30  It goes on to state that NERC should review its reliability 
standards to determine if new registration categories or new or modified reliability 
standards are required to ensure reliability of the BES. 
The CAISO supports this principle.  As discussed above, NERC and others have 
already observed that large loads present many novel challenges for maintaining 
reliability.  Given the rapid proliferation of these large loads, it is critical for the 
Commission, NERC, States, and utilities to adapt their standards and procedures as 
necessary to maintain reliability.  The CAISO supports the efforts of NERC’s large load 
taskforce, including the recent NERC Alert seeking data on large loads and utility 
procedures.31  Keeping reliability standards reform aligned with the reforms in this 
proceeding—both substantively and temporally—will help transmission providers 
implement those reforms as soon as possible.  It also will provide developers regulatory 
certainty, and will facilitate the timely interconnections of large loads.  NERC should 
consider developing specific modeling and performance reliability standards for large 
loads, similar to MOD, PRC, and BAL standards applicable to large generators.  This 
will ensure consistent treatment across balancing authorities, remove regulatory 
uncertainty for developers and transmission providers, and thus further the timely and 
 
29  
ANOPR at P 31. 
30  
Id. 
31  
https://www.nerc.com/globalassets/programs/bpsa/alerts/2025/nerc-alert-level-2--large-loads.pdf.  

--- PAGE 18 ---
 
18 
 
orderly interconnection of large loads.  The CAISO notes, however, that transmission 
providers like the CAISO may need to seek approval for their own reliability technical 
requirements in the meantime.  Large loads are already proliferating, and some reforms 
may need to be implemented as soon as possible to address critical reliability needs, 
especially where transmission providers see local and regional needs.  
III. 
CONCLUSION  
 
The CAISO appreciates the Commission’s efforts in establishing this proceeding, 
and respectfully requests that any final rule consider the CAISO’s recommendations.  
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
/s/ William H. Weaver  
Roger E. Collanton 
  General Counsel 
William H. Weaver 
  Assistant General Counsel 
California Independent System 
  Operator Corporation 
250 Outcropping Way 
Folsom, CA  95630 
(916) 608-7135 
bweaver@caiso.com  
 
 
November 21, 2025  
 

--- PAGE 19 ---
 
 
 
 
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
 
I certify that I have served the foregoing document upon the parties listed on the 
official service list in the captioned proceedings, in accordance with the requirements of 
Rule 2010 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Procedure (18 C.F.R. § 
385.2010). 
Dated at Folsom, California this 21st day of November, 2025. 
 
/s/ Ariana Rebancos 
Ariana Rebancos 
An employee of the California ISO  
 
