--- PAGE 1 ---
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Ensuring Timely and Orderly 
Interconnection of Large Loads 
) 
) 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
REPLY COMMENTS OF  
SOUTHEAST PUBLIC INTEREST ORGANIZATIONS 
 
Pursuant to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (FERC or Commission) Notice 
Inviting Comments1 on the Secretary of Energy’s October 23, 2025 Advance Notice of Proposed 
Rulemaking (ANOPR),2 Southern Environmental Law Center, Appalachian Voices, North 
Carolina Sustainable Energy Association, South Carolina Coastal Conservation League, and 
Southern Alliance for Clean Energy (together, Southeast Public Interest Organizations) submit 
these comments in reply to select initial comments on the ANOPR filed by entities located in or 
affecting the Southeast. 
This proceeding has aroused divergent opinions from all corners of the industry.  The one 
point on which nearly all commenters agree is the unprecedented nature of the looming demand 
growth created by large loads.  As Southeast Public Interest Organizations and many others 
recognized in their initial comments, the size, speed, and density of this surge threaten to 
overwhelm the transmission grid and the ability of ratepayers to subsidize its expansion.  
Appropriately, many states have taken actions to address this extraordinary spike—including 
some in the Southeast, which has experienced more aggressive large load growth than most 
regions.  The Commission must ensure that any large load interconnection reforms it adopts in 
this proceeding do not handcuff states’ ability to continue doing so.  At the same time, the 
interstate nature of the transmission grid presents a unique opportunity for the Commission to 
 
1 Notice Inviting Comments, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 27, 2025). 
2 Ensuring Timely and Orderly Interconnection of Large Loads, Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, Secretary 
of Energy (2025). 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
2 
 
establish commonsense large load interconnection measures to protect existing customers from 
large load growth and the grid expansion it will require.  The Commission can and must do so in 
manner that preserves cooperative federalism and respects jurisdictional boundaries. 
In crafting these rules, the Commission must also recognize that unprecedented 
challenges require innovative solutions.  Longstanding practices that served the industry in stable 
times are ill-equipped to accommodate a blitzkrieg of large loads and dedicated network 
upgrades.  This is particularly true with respect to cost allocation.  Broadly spreading the costs of 
upgrades meant to integrate and benefit massive loads will overburden existing customers and 
further incentivize the piecemeal grid expansion that the Commission has found to be unjust and 
unreasonable.3  Rather, as many diverse commenters recognize, only proactively planned 
transmission facilities can both affordably serve large loads and benefit the broader customer 
base.4  To protect ratepayers and expand the grid in a mutually beneficial manner, the 
Commission must take this opportunity to encourage proactive regional and interregional 
transmission planning for all needs—including large loads—and to deter continued reliance on 
inefficient, one-off upgrades.  Directly assigning the costs of large load-caused network upgrades 
and sequestering them from the broader rate base would accomplish this necessary goal.     
I. 
INTERACTION WITH STATE EFFORTS 
A. A Commission rule standardizing large load interconnection would complement 
rather than disrupt state progress. 
As Southeast Public Interest Organizations pointed out in their initial comments,5 utilities 
across the Southeast have proposed, and several state regulators have accepted, rules governing 
 
3 See Building for the Future Through Electric Regional Transmission Planning and Cost Allocation, Order No. 
1920, 187 FERC ¶ 61,068, at P 103 (2025), order on reh’g, Order No. 1920-A, 189 FERC ¶ 61,126 (2024), order on 
clarification, Order No. 1920-B, 191 FERC ¶ 61,026 (2025). 
4 See, e.g., AEP Initial Comments at 15-18; Google Initial Comments at 2-5.  
5 Southeast Public Interest Organizations Initial Comments at 36.  

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
3 
 
retail sales to large loads.     
For example, just last week, the Virginia State Corporation Commission (SCC) accepted 
Dominion Energy Virginia’s (Dominion) proposed large load rules.6  They create a separate rate 
class for large loads over 25 MW that have a measured or expected load factor of at least 75 
percent.7  They establish minimum contract terms with exit fees, collateral and proof of credit 
requirements, minimum demand charges, and allowable capacity reductions.8  Similarly, as the 
Georgia Public Service Commission (Georgia PSC) notes in its initial comments, it accepted a 
Georgia Power Company (Georgia Power) proposal earlier this year to establish rules for large 
loads at or above 100 MW.9  Like Dominion, Georgia Power included minimum contract terms 
and credit requirements.10  Finally, as part of a recent settlement in South Carolina, Duke Energy 
Carolinas, LLC and Duke Energy Progress, LLC (together, Duke Energy) proposed to work with 
stakeholders to file rules to apply to large loads over 50 MW.11  Possible provisions could relate 
to minimum contract periods, collateral requirements, exit policies, interconnection costs, or 
flexible interconnection, among others.12  Dominion, Georgia Power, and Duke Energy’s reforms 
and proposals are examples of positive initial steps Southeastern states have taken to address 
large loads. 
 
6 See Va. State Corp. Comm’n, Final Order, Va. State Corp. Comm’n Case No. PUR-2025-00058 (Nov. 25, 2025).  
7 Id. at 23. 
8 Id. at 24-27. 
9 See Georgia Public Service Commission Initial Comments at 1-2; Georgia Power Company, Cover Letter Request 
for Approval of Revisions to Georgia Power Company’s Rules and Regulations, Ga. Pub. Serv. Comm’n Docket No. 
44280, at 2-3 (Dec. 11, 2024).  
10 Ga. Pub. Serv. Comm’n, Order Approving Revisions to Georgia Power Company’s Rules and Regulations, Ga. 
Pub. Serv. Comm’n Docket No. 44280, at 1 (Jan. 28, 2025); Georgia Power Company, Cover Letter Request for 
Approval of Revisions to Georgia Power Company’s Rules and Regulations, Ga. Pub. Serv. Comm’n Docket No. 
44280, at 2 (filed Dec. 11, 2024).   
11 See Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC, Agreement and Stipulation of Partial Settlement Regarding Large Load, S.C. 
Pub. Serv. Comm’n Docket No. 2025-172-E, at 6 (filed Nov. 11, 2025); Duke Energy Progress, LLC, Agreement 
and Stipulation of Partial Settlement Regarding Large Load, S.C. Pub. Serv. Comm’n Docket No. 2025-154-E, at 6 
(filed Oct. 27, 2025).   
12 See, e.g., Duke Energy Progress, LLC, Agreement and Stipulation of Partial Settlement Regarding Large Load, 
S.C. Pub. Serv. Comm’n Docket No. 2025-154-E, at 6 (filed Oct. 27, 2025).   

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
4 
 
The Commission can implement reforms for large load interconnection without 
undermining these constructive state efforts.  Unlike the terms and conditions of large load 
interconnection that the ANOPR contemplates, the reforms that these states have developed 
clearly apply to the rates, terms, and conditions of retail sales, such as contract terms and 
minimum demand charges.  The Commission would certainly overstep its jurisdictional bounds 
should it try to implement similar provisions as part of this proceeding.  Nor can the Commission 
preempt states from adopting similar measures in the future, as states must be free to regulate the 
terms and conditions of large load retail service as they see fit.   
On the other hand, to Southeast Public Interest Organizations’ knowledge, Southeastern 
states have not established formal interconnection processes for large loads seeking to connect to 
the transmission system13 or dedicated studies to identify necessary transmission upgrades.  As 
Southeast Public Interest Organizations explained in their initial comments, the Commission’s 
authority over facilities used for transmission in interstate commerce enables the Commission to 
impose transmission-level interconnection rules along these lines.14  As such, there is ample 
room for the Commission to explore reforms for large load interconnection without disturbing 
state efforts.  
B. Commission action on large load interconnection in this proceeding could be 
additive to state efforts.  
Southeast Public Interest Organizations demonstrated in their initial comments that 
Commission rules governing large load interconnection could have two primary ratepayer 
protection effects:  (1) establishing a formal interconnection process with financial commitments 
 
13 In a recent rate case, the SCC did direct Dominion to file a “new large load interconnection queue process . . . in a 
separate future proceeding at the” SCC.  Va. State Corp. Comm’n, Final Order, Va. State Corp. Comm’n Case No. 
PUR-2025-00058, at 22 (Nov. 25, 2025).  As of yet, however, the company has not proposed a separate 
interconnection queue for large loads interconnecting to the transmission system. 
14 Southeast Public Interest Organizations Initial Comments at 25-34. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
5 
 
should improve load forecasting, lowering the likelihood that transmission providers build 
unnecessary infrastructure;15 and (2) allocation of 100 percent of the cost of network upgrades to 
the large loads that caused them would protect existing customers from rate increases for 
facilities from which they derive little or no benefit.16  Both would supplement the 
fundamentally different ongoing state efforts to regulate large load retail sales. 
First, large load interconnection processes could help solidify load forecasts that underlie 
transmission build-out.  For the most part, state efforts to regulate large loads have focused on 
establishing contractual and financial commitment provisions, like minimum contract terms, 
minimum demand charges, and exit fees, to deter speculative interconnection requests.  This 
should, in turn, improve the accuracy of large load forecasting.  In many cases, however, these 
efforts have yet to bear fruit.  For example, since the Georgia PSC accepted Georgia Power’s 
large load rules this past January, the company has started to see a decrease in its overall 
pipeline, yet continues to include uncommitted large loads in its proposed planning forecast.17  
As Georgia PSC staff points out, Georgia Power’s load forecast still overestimates 
materialization of large loads, even over periods as short as six months ahead.18  The further out 
Georgia Power’s model goes, the more inaccurate:  error rates exceed 100 percent when 
forecasting just over one year ahead.19  Georgia PSC staff has therefore concluded that Georgia 
Power’s model, even after implementing disciplinary measures, “does not exhibit reasonable 
accuracy.”20 
 
15 Id. at 39-45. 
16 Id. at 45-49. 
17 See Gorgia Power Company, Ga. Pub. Serv. Comm’n Docket No. 56002, 2025 Integrated Resource Plan Update 
Large Load Economic Development Report Q3 2025, at 1 (filed Nov. 21, 2025).  
18 See Georgia Public Service Commission Public Interest Advocacy Staff, Direct Testimony and Exhibits of Robert 
L. Trokey, Dylan A. Drugan, and Karan A. Pol, Ga. Pub. Serv. Comm’n Docket No. 56310, at 23:5-13 (filed Nov. 
12, 2025).  
19 Id. at 24:3-6. 
20 Id. at 23:13. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
6 
 
Since state efforts to discipline large load speculation, improve load forecasts, and soften 
cost impacts on other customers may not suffice on their own, a Commission interconnection 
rule could serve to further firm up large load forecasts.  Indeed, state-imposed retail 
commitments may not fully mitigate speculative requests because developers typically sign 
Electric Service Agreements imposing those commitments later in the process, after developers 
have a sense for the required facility costs and timing.21  A large load interconnection process 
could require large loads to commit to an interconnection request earlier than when a retail 
service obligation would otherwise attach.22  This could be characterized as a belt-and-
suspenders approach, but given the enormous cost of interconnecting large loads and their price 
insensitivity, imposing layered financial commitments may be necessary to reduce speculative 
interconnection requests and any stranded transmission investment that results.  
Second, state efforts to regulate large loads are not clearly allocating the costs of 
transmission upgrades to the large loads that cause them.  While utilities and state regulators 
stress the importance of large loads paying their “fair share” and protecting other customers from 
bearing the associated costs,23 none of the aforementioned state-level reforms have required large 
loads to pay the full cost of transmission upgrades they cause or otherwise insulate existing 
customers from their impact.  Instead, states and their regulated utilities have opted for a 
business-as-usual approach of spreading transmission costs—including the substantial costs 
 
21 See Southeast Public Interest Organizations Initial Comments at 19 (citing London Economics International, LLC, 
Uncertainty and Upward Bias are Inherent in Data Center Electricity Demand Projections, at 13 (July 7, 2025)).  
22 However, as discussed below, the Commission must ensure that it does not disrupt the sequencing of large load 
interconnection and the commencement of retail service in a manner that would impair reliability or increase costs to 
ratepayers. 
23 See, e.g., Georgia Public Service Commission Initial Comments at 1-2 (discussing the tariff changes that the 
Georgia Public Service Commission accepted to ensure that new customers over 100 MW pay their fair share of 
costs); Duke Energy Initial Comments at 8 (discussing how its Electric Service Agreements ensure that large load 
customers pay their fair share).   

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
7 
 
dedicated solely to interconnecting large loads—across all ratepayers.24  Utilities often claim that 
interconnecting large loads will “put downward pressure on rates that will benefit all 
customers[,]”25 but this is only true where the large loads do not require significant investment in 
new infrastructure whose costs are spread to all ratepayers.  In any event, trends across the 
country belie these claims.26  As Southeast Public Interest Organizations demonstrated in their 
initial comments, large load interconnections can have uniquely acute cost impacts on existing 
customers given their size, high load factors, and tendency to site in concentrated pockets over a 
short period of time.27  The Commission’s statutory obligation to ensure just and reasonable 
transmission rates and uphold its cost causation principles dictates that it must act to address this 
issue.   
Commission action to establish large load interconnection procedures would therefore 
provide a necessary supplement to state efforts to protect existing customers from the associated 
cost impacts.  Indeed, failure to do so would allow unjust and unreasonable cost allocation 
approaches to persist.  
C.  The Commission can craft large load interconnection rules that enable orderly 
state-jurisdictional processes and accommodate future state reforms.  
As it develops a large load interconnection process, the Commission must ensure that any 
such procedures do not enable transmission-connected large loads to outpace state approval of 
 
24 See, e.g., Southeast Public Interest Organizations Initial Comments at 8-17. 
25 See, e.g., Georgia Power Company, Cover Letter Request for Approval of Revisions to Georgia Power Company’s 
Rules and Regulations, Ga. Pub. Serv. Comm’n Docket No. 44280, at 1 (Dec. 11, 2024). 
26 See, e.g., Mike Jacobs, UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS, Data Centers Are Already Increasing Your Energy 
Bills. We Have the Receipts. (Sept. 29, 2025), https://blog.ucs.org/mike-jacobs/data-centers-are-already-increasing-
your-energy-bills/ (UCS Report); see also Kristi E. Swartz and Drew Kann, ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION, 
Analysts warn Georgia Power bills will rise if PSC approves data center buildout (Nov. 24, 2025),  
https://www.ajc.com/business/2025/11/analysts-warn-georgia-power-bills-will-rise-if-psc-approves-data-center-
buildout/ (“Georgia Power residential customers could see monthly bills jump $20 or more if the PSC allows the 
utility to complete the historic power fleet expansion it has proposed to support an influx of data centers.”).  
27 See Southeast Public Interest Organizations Initial Comments at 1.  

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
8 
 
the associated retail service.28  Failure to do so could impair reliability to other customers or 
result in stranded transmission assets.  As the SCC suggests in its initial comments, the 
Commission could prevent such sequencing issues by enabling individual transmission-owning 
utilities to maintain large load interconnection queues, as opposed to the Regional Transmission 
Organization (RTO) or Independent System Operator (ISO) to which they belong.29  This could 
enhance efficiency by leaving the load interconnection queue in the hands of the entity that “has 
insight into the retail system that will serve the new load” rather than a further-removed and/or 
regional entity that would otherwise rely on the utility for that information.30   
In response to concerns that this proceeding could harm efficiency by resulting in two 
separate load interconnection queues, one for large transmission-connected loads regulated by 
the Commission and one for all other loads regulated by the state,31 the Commission could 
encourage joint state and federal interconnection queues.  As the North Carolina Utilities 
Commission notes, the state’s adoption of cluster studies for generator interconnection preceded 
Order No. 2023.32  Consequently, Duke Energy in the Carolinas has also been ahead of the curve 
when it comes to combining its federal and state generator interconnection queues, a joint effort 
among South Carolina, North Carolina, and the Commission.  According to Duke Energy, the 
state-federal coordination has enabled the utility “to more efficiently administer a combined 
queue that contains both state-jurisdictional and FERC-jurisdictional projects.”33  Duke Energy 
has asserted that the “uniformity in these provisions across all interconnection processes, 
 
28 See, e.g., North Carolina Utilities Commission Public Staff Initial Comments at 3 (“A Commission rule 
prescribing methods, timing, and transmission pricing for interconnecting load to the transmission system could not . 
. . provide any right for that load to be actually served as a retail customer[.]”). 
29 See Virginia State Corporation Commission at 6.  
30 Id. 
31 See id. at 3. 
32 See North Carolina Utilities Commission Initial Comments at 4. 
33 Duke Energy, Compliance Filing, Docket No. ER24-1554-000, at 13-14 (filed Mar. 18, 2024).  

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
9 
 
transparency to customers of these provisions, consistency in application of the process across 3 
jurisdictions (two states and federal), and efficiency in administering the same provisions in such 
jurisdictions” has produced benefits to customers that outweigh the upfront cost and effort to 
coordinate interconnection provisions.34  If utilities wish to implement their own interconnection 
queues that apply to loads not captured by the Commission’s reforms in this proceeding, the 
Commission could encourage joint state and federal efforts to produce similar benefits.  
More broadly, the Commission can continue to accommodate evolving state efforts to 
address large loads by framing any final rule as establishing a national floor of ratepayer 
protection from the costs associated with large load interconnection.  While these 
interconnection-specific procedures fundamentally differ from the retail service reforms states 
have adopted to this point, a final rule would have the effect of creating a baseline level of 
consumer safeguards.  And, as required by the jurisdictional framework, states would remain free 
to impose retail policies that more rigorously regulate large loads if they desire to do so.  
Establishing this national floor of ratepayer protection through interconnection process reforms 
would strike the right balance between respecting cooperative federalism and preventing a race 
to the bottom.  On one hand, states retain the flexibility to adopt retail service-related policies 
that are more stringent yet still compatible with federal policy.  On the other hand, ratepayers in 
states that implement minimal or no large load rules in order to attract them still receive some 
level of protection.35  
 
34 Id. at 14. 
35 Southeast Public Interest Organizations note, however, that large load regulations do not seem to undermine a 
state’s competitiveness in attracting large loads.  After Virginia, Texas has the most data centers in the United States.  
DATA CENTER MAP, US Data Centers (last accessed Dec. 2, 2025), https://www.datacentermap.com/usa/.  Yet the 
Texas state legislature has passed a bill that, among other things, enables the Electric Reliability Council of Texas to 
curtail large loads during grid emergencies, requires large loads to contribute to the cost of interconnection, and 
imposes interconnection standards on large loads.  Baker Botts, Texas Senate Bill 6:  Understanding the Impacts to 
Large Loads and Co-located Generation (July 18, 2025), https://www.bakerbotts.com/thought-

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
10 
 
II. 
NETWORK UPGRADE COST RESPONSIBILITY 
A. Reliance on rolled-in rate treatment for large load-specific network upgrades 
fails to recognize unprecedented scale of large load growth and will unduly harm 
existing customers. 
Transmission-owning utilities in the Southeast and their national representatives urge the 
Commission to retain its longstanding rolled-in rate policy for network upgrades caused by large 
load interconnections.36  Citing Commission precedent from the 70’s and 80’s, the Indicated PJM 
Transmission Owners (PJM TOs) stress the Commission’s decades-old reliance on this cost 
allocation policy and claim that “[t]here is no reason for the Commission to deviate from this 
approach.”37  Yet in the same breath, they provide a compelling reason to deviate from this 
approach:  “the number of network upgrades that will be required to accommodate large load 
data center customer interconnections necessary to satisfy federal policy goals surrounding the 
expeditious development of artificial intelligence infrastructure is already significantly 
increasing, and will continue to do so into the foreseeable future.”38  Likewise, EEI states that 
“[i]ntegrating large load customers will require an unprecedented level of investment across a 
substantial portion of EEI members’ transmission systems.”39  Duke Energy has “announced 
increases to its five-year capital plan . . . up to $105 billion”40 and the Southern Companies are 
“planning to invest over $70 billion in the energy grid across [their] service territories” through 
2029.41  The sheer scale of large load growth and the unprecedented transmission investment it 
will require demands that the Commission chart an alternative course. 
 
leadership/publications/2025/july/texas-senate-bill-6-understanding-the-impacts-to-large-loads-and-co-located-
generation.  
36 See, e.g., Duke Energy Initial Comments at 22-24; Indicated PJM Transmission Owners Initial Comments at 9-21 
(PJM TOs Initial Comments); EEI Initial Comments at 8-13. 
37 PJM TOs Initial Comments at 11, n.21. 
38 Id. at 25-26. 
39 EEI Initial Comments at 11. 
40 Duke Energy Initial Comments at 7. 
41 Southern Companies Initial Comments at 4. 

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
11 
 
As Southeast Public Interest Organizations outlined extensively in their initial comments, 
the status quo of rolled-in rate treatment places the cost of network upgrades caused by large 
load interconnections into rate base where it flows into rates for all customers.42  In PJM 
Interconnection L.L.C. (PJM), the costs of these upgrades—including those that directly serve 
large loads—are included in transmission rates paid by Load Serving Entities like Dominion, 
who pass the costs onto their retail ratepayers.43  In bundled retail rate jurisdictions, like Georgia 
and the Carolinas, those costs are included in the general rate base alongside generation and 
distribution costs and likewise spread amongst all retail customers.44  Those rate structures may 
have made sense when relatively linear, organic load growth caused modest incremental 
upgrades, but they were not designed for enormous and fast-paced infusions of transmission 
investment dedicated to serving a relatively small number of large customers.  If the Commission 
continues to rely on this methodology for network upgrade cost recovery, it will saddle existing 
customers with massive rate increases solely for the purpose of serving an entirely separate pool 
of customers.  Contrary to the PJM TOs’ assertion, it cannot be true that “[t]he expansion of the 
transmission system to accommodate large load data center customers represent[s] both the 
present and future transmission system needs the Commission foresaw . . . when it sustained 
rolled-in rate treatment as the just and reasonable approach.”45  This magnitude of load growth 
and these impacts to ratepayers could not possibly have been on the Commission’s mind all those 
years ago.  
Fortunately, the Commission has a clear example to follow in this proceeding.  It has long 
allowed RTOs and ISOs “to directly assign network upgrade costs to the interconnection 
 
42 See Southeast Public Interest Organizations Initial Comments at 11-17. 
43 See id. at 11-12 (citing UCS Report). 
44 See id. at 12-14. 
45 PJM TOs Initial Comments at 12. 

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
12 
 
customer, in addition to charging the interconnection customer the rolled-in transmission rate 
(i.e., ‘and’ pricing).”46  Under this participant funding model, the interconnection customer pays 
the costs for the network upgrades that would not be required but for their interconnection.47  
Then, to the extent the interconnection customer purchases transmission service, it also pays the 
standard transmission rate that captures the costs of all other facilities on the system.  The costs 
of the network updates are not included in rate base,48 such that existing customers do not 
contribute to their cost recovery.  This also prevents the interconnection customer from paying 
for the same upgrades twice, once through direct assignment and again in transmission rates.  As 
the Commission has found, “a well-designed and independently administered participant funding 
policy for Network Upgrades offers the potential to provide more efficient price signals and a 
more equitable allocation of costs than the crediting approach.”49   
The Commission has allowed participant funding only in RTOs/ISOs because, as 
independent entities, RTOs/ISOs lack the economic incentive to prioritize certain 
interconnections over others in administering their interconnection queues, unlike vertically 
integrated utilities.50  But, as North Carolina Public Staff rightly recognizes, there is no concern 
about undue discrimination in the large load interconnection context—either in RTOs/ISOs or 
territories served by vertically integrated utilities—because “the economic incentives for utilities 
 
46 Midcontinent Indep. System Operator, Inc., 187 FERC ¶ 61,170, at P 5 (2024) (Initial Funding Show Cause 
Order). 
47 See, e.g., PJM, Intra-PJM Tariffs, OATT, § 217.3(a) (4.0.0). 
48 See, e.g., PJM TOs Transmittal, Docket No. ER21-2282-000, at 12 (filed June 30, 2021) (“Under the Existing 
Funding Model in PJM, the generator provides the upfront capital for the Network Upgrade and this capital is 
treated as a contribution that goes into the interconnecting utility’s rate base at $0.”). 
49 Standardization of Generator Interconnection Agreements & Procs., Order No. 2003, 68 FR 49846 (Aug. 19, 
2003), 104 FERC ¶ 61,103, at P 695 (2003), order on reh’g, Order No. 2003-A, 69 FR 15932 (Mar. 26, 2004), 106 
FERC ¶ 61,220, order on reh’g, Order No. 2003-B, 70 FR 265 (Jan. 4, 2005), 109 FERC ¶ 61,287 (2004), order on 
reh’g, Order No. 2003-C, 70 FR 37661 (June 30, 2005), 111 FERC ¶ 61,401 (2005), aff’d sub nom. Nat’l Ass’n of 
Regul. Util. Comm’rs v. FERC, 475 F.3d 1277 (D.C. Cir. 2007). 
50 See Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103 at P 696. 

--- PAGE 13 ---
 
13 
 
favor interconnecting large loads.”51  Large load interconnection, whether inside or outside an 
RTO/ISO, therefore provides an appropriate context for replicating this participant funding 
model and taking advantage of the efficient price signals and equitable cost allocation it can 
provide.      
The participant funding or “and” pricing model would better fit large load 
interconnection than the Commission’s traditional “higher of” or “or” pricing approach.  In the 
latter, the transmission provider may “charge the higher of the embedded costs of the 
Transmission System with expansion costs rolled in, or incremental expansion costs, but not the 
sum of the two.”52  Neither of these options would equitably allocate the costs of large load 
network upgrades.  First, as described above, the embedded or rolled-in rate approach spreads 
the costs of upgrades to all other customers who may not benefit from them.  Second, if the 
incremental costs of the network upgrades exceed the embedded costs, then the large load may 
only cover the costs of the upgrades themselves and not contribute to the other costs of the 
present and future grid that serves them.  As PJM TOs recognize, this could result in a situation 
where, over “the long term, it would effectively relieve large load from contributing to the 
continued development and maintenance of the transmission system, or any other part of the 
transmission system they are using.”53  Accordingly, the Commission should directly assign the 
costs of network upgrades to the large loads that cause them using a similar model to participant 
funding for generator interconnection.  This would ensure that large loads pay the costs of both 
the facilities whose needs they caused and those which will serve them now and in the future, 
while also protecting existing customers from unjustified rate increases. 
 
51 Public Staff – North Carolina Utilities Commission Initial Comments at 4-5. 
52 Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103 at n.111. 
53 PJM TOs Initial Comments at 15. 

--- PAGE 14 ---
 
14 
 
B. The Commission should deter piecemeal grid expansion and incentivize 
proactively planned regional transmission by excluding large load network 
upgrades from rate base. 
When transmission providers build discrete network upgrades for each large load 
customer, they expand the grid in a piecemeal, inefficient manner.  The Commission recently 
found in Order No. 1920 that upgrading the transmission grid in this fashion “can result in 
relatively inefficient or less cost-effective transmission development for customers, which 
contributes to rates for transmission that are unjust and unreasonable.”54  When the costs of these 
facilities are included in transmission rate base, they are borne by all other transmission 
customers who may receive little, if any associated benefit from them.  More specifically, if the 
required network upgrades address only reliability or economic needs created by the demand the 
large load places on the system, then existing customers can hardly be said to have benefitted at 
all.  If these large load-created network upgrades do not provide any meaningful systemwide 
benefit, then there is no rationale for rolling their costs into broadly applicable transmission rates. 
By contrast, a diverse set of industry actors recognize that proactively planned 
transmission facilities can best integrate large loads while generating benefits for all users of the 
grid.  For example, AEP states that “[w]idespread proactive transmission planning is the solution 
to address the concerns surrounding the increasing number of large load additions because it will 
anticipate and plan for load changes based on these load interconnections and ensure that 
transmission capacity exists to accommodate those load interconnections in an efficient and cost-
effective manner.”55  Google explains that, “[w]ithout a comprehensive, coordinated 
transmission planning process built on a more complete picture of growth in supply and demand, 
we will be stuck developing transmission infrastructure through piecemeal, reactive processes 
 
54 Order No. 1920, 187 FERC ¶ 61,068 at P 103. 
55 AEP Initial Comments at 17. 

--- PAGE 15 ---
 
15 
 
that are insufficient to secure our position as a global manufacturing and economic powerhouse 
for decades to come.”56  The Data Center Coalition expresses similar sentiments.57 
These comments suggest that the Commission must do more to prioritize proactively 
planned transmission facilities.  As Southeast Public Interest Organizations urged in their initial 
comments, that should include the expeditious processing of Order No. 1920 compliance 
filings.58  But encouraging this type of efficient and cost-effective grid investment also requires 
discouraging the piecemeal expansion that Order No. 1920 sought to avoid.  The Commission 
can do so by excluding the cost of large load-specific network upgrades from rate base.  Not only 
would this protect existing customers from unjustly and unreasonably bearing the costs of 
facilities from which they derive no meaningful benefit, but it would also prevent transmission 
providers from earning a return on these facilities, thereby incentivizing them to prioritize 
transmission upgrades planned through the Order No. 1920 processes, on which they would 
continue to earn a return.  Indeed, the Commission has already preliminarily found that tariff 
provisions allowing transmission providers to earn a return on network upgrades funded by 
interconnection customers may be unjust and unreasonable, and unduly discriminatory or 
preferential.59  It can extend that determination to network upgrades identified in the large load 
interconnection context and directly assigned to large loads on a similar basis.   
Otherwise, if the Commission continues to broadly allocate the costs of large load 
network upgrades, include them in rate base, and allow transmission providers to earn a return on 
them, it will perpetuate reliance on inefficient, piecemeal transmission expansion that harms 
customers.  Cordoning these network upgrades off from rate base would ensure that customers 
 
56 Google Initial Comments at 4. 
57 See Data Center Coalition Comments at 10-11. 
58 See Southeast Public Interest Organizations Comments at 55-56. 
59 See Initial Funding Show Cause Order at PP 1, 44. 

--- PAGE 16 ---
 
16 
 
pay only the costs of facilities that have demonstrable benefits to them and encourage 
transmission providers to develop more broadly beneficial facilities.              
III. 
BUNDLED RETAIL RATES 
Some commenters contend that allocating 100 percent of the costs of network upgrades 
to large loads, among other aspects of the ANOPR, would disrupt state authority over the 
transmission portion of bundled retail sales.60   
As regards network upgrade cost responsibility, the Commission could avoid encroaching 
on any state authority by making upfront funding of network upgrades a condition of the large 
load’s interconnection to the interstate transmission system.  Cost responsibility and payment 
terms for these network upgrades can be established contractually, as in PJM’s pro forma 
Upgrade Construction Service Agreement61 or the Midcontinent Independent System Operator’s 
pro forma Facilities Service Agreement.62  This contractual arrangement would precede the large 
load beginning to take retail service from the vertically integrated utility and would dictate that 
the costs of network upgrades be invoiced separately.  As such, these costs would never enter the 
utility’s rate base.  By treating network upgrade funding as a contractual predicate to 
interconnection, the Commission would not disturb the state’s allocation of costs for all broadly 
utilized transmission facilities to retail customer classes.  Large loads would still receive retail 
service from the vertically integrated utility, paying the retail rate that includes all other 
transmission costs which all other customers in its rate class pay.  And, as outlined above, 
excluding the costs of network upgrades from rate base would ensure that all retail customers 
only pay for the costs of the transmission facilities that benefit them. 
 
60 See, e.g., Southern Companies Initial Comments at 14; Duke Energy Initial Comments at 7-9; EEI Initial 
Comments at 22-25. 
61 See PJM, Intra-PJM Tariffs, OATT, Attach. GG (4.1.0).  
62 See MISO, FERC Electric Tariff, Attach. X, App. 14 (34.0.0). 

--- PAGE 17 ---
 
17 
 
If the Commission were to assert its jurisdiction over transmission facilities in bundled 
retail states in this narrow fashion, it would have overwhelming justification to do so.  Unlike in 
Order No. 888, when the Commission elected not to assert jurisdiction over the transmission 
portion of bundled retail rates,63 the Commission can and must find here that directly assigning 
the costs of network upgrades to large loads is necessary to address the unjust, unreasonable, and 
unduly discriminatory or preferential cost allocation practices identified in this proceeding.  The 
record already demonstrates that the cresting wave of large load-caused transmission upgrades 
are impacting existing customers in non-RTO/ISO areas and will continue to do so.  And, as 
Southeast Public Interest Organizations noted in their initial comments, if the Commission 
applies different standards inside and outside RTOs/ISOs, it would funnel large loads and the 
associated transmission impacts to the jurisdictions that do not assign large loads full cost 
responsibility for network upgrades.  Whatever thorny jurisdictional issues this raises can be 
minimized by (1) construing network upgrade cost responsibility as a condition of 
interconnection for large loads and (2) preserving the ability of states with bundled retail rates to 
continue allocating costs of all broadly beneficial transmission facilities amongst retail rate 
classes.       
IV. 
CONCLUSION 
For the foregoing reasons, Southeast Public Interest Organizations respectfully urge the 
Commission to develop large load interconnection reforms in this proceeding that will protect 
existing customers from the transmission upgrades caused by large load interconnections, while 
respecting state authority over retail sales to large loads. 
 
 
63 See New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1, 26 (2002). 

--- PAGE 18 ---
 
18 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
/s/ Nicholas J. Guidi 
Nicholas J. Guidi 
Senior Attorney 
 
/s/ Katherine L. Rogers 
Katherine L. Rogers 
Associate Attorney 
Southern Environmental Law Center 
122 C Street NW, Suite 325 
Washington, DC 20001 
nguidi@selc.org 
krogers@selc.org  
 
/s/ Matt Wasson         
Matt Wasson 
Director of Programs 
Appalachian Voices    
164 S. Depot St.  
Boone, NC 28607                                             
matt@appvoices.org  
/s/ Maggie Shober 
Maggie Shober 
Research Director 
Southern Alliance for Clean Energy 
P.O. Box 1842 
Knoxville, TN 37901 
maggie@cleanenergy.org  
/s/ Taylor Allred 
Taylor Allred 
Energy & Climate Program Director 
Coastal Conservation League 
131 Spring Street 
Charleston, SC 29403 
taylora@scccl.org  
 
/s/ Justin Somelofske         
Justin Somelofske 
Senior Regulatory Counsel         
North Carolina Sustainable Energy Association    
4441 Six Forks Road, Suite 106-250         
Raleigh, NC 27609                                             
justin@energync.org 
  
 
December 5, 2025 
