--- PAGE 1 ---
- 1 - 
6039401v.1 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate 
) 
 
       Docket No. RM26-4-000 
      Transmission System 
 
 
 
) 
 
INITIAL COMMENTS OF 
THE LOUISIANA AND MISSISSIPPI PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSIONS 
 
On October 23, 2025, the Department of Energy (“DOE”) directed the FERC to initiate an 
advanced notice of proposed rulemaking (“ANOPR”), pursuant to 42 U.S.C. § 7173 (a), urging 
that it is in the public interest to provide a path for large loads (greater than 20 MW) to interconnect 
directly to the transmission system in a "timely, orderly, and non-discriminatory manner" under 
FERC jurisdiction. The Louisiana and Mississippi Commissions fully appreciate and support the 
goal of providing domestic industries, including large loads and data centers, access to timely, 
affordable, and reliable electric energy. It is critical for needed economic development 
opportunities in Louisiana to create investment, jobs, tax revenues, and salaries.  
However, while large loads may need to interconnect quickly, generation, distribution, and 
transmission also are needed to supply those loads, and matching load, generation and delivery 
facilities is critical to serving load reliably. That reliability concern relates both to the new 
interconnecting load and the impacts to existing load served by the incumbent utilities.  The states 
have exclusive authority under the Federal Power Act ("FPA") over generation resources, resource 
adequacy, distribution and distribution facilities, the intrastate transmission of electricity, and end-
use retail sales.   
The ANOPR asserts, without offering any evidence that large load interconnection is 
unreasonable incumbered, that federal jurisdiction is needed to timely interconnect end-use retail 
customers, which is traditionally within the purview of retail regulators.  While the stated goal of 

--- PAGE 2 ---
- 2 - 
6039401v.1 
the ANOPR is laudable, the proposed implementation of that goal raises jurisdictional, reliability, 
resource adequacy, transparency, planning, and cost allocation concerns.  In addition, Louisiana 
and Mississippi have not had any issues associated with the delay of  the interconnection of large 
loads, and FERC should be mindful that any rules adopted could unintentionally result in delays, 
instead of acceleration of the desired interconnections. The ANOPR may be a solution in search 
of a problem. Any proposed rule that results from the ANOPR should not harm grid reliability, 
should be flexible, should not impose undue costs on retail customers, should respect state rules 
and procedures that have resulted in timely load interconnections, and should respect cooperative 
federalism and state jurisdiction under the FPA. In fact, the rule should not apply to any 
transmission owner or transmission provider in the absence of a demonstration that large load 
interconnections are being met with significant delays. If it is not broken, we do not need to fix it. 
 
The Louisiana Commission has plenary authority to regulate the rates charged, services 
rendered, and operations of public utilities pursuant to the Louisiana Constitution, Article IV, 
Section 21(B), which provides: 
 
The commission shall regulate all common carriers and public 
 
utilities and have such other regulatory authority as provided by law. 
 
It shall adopt and enforce reasonable rules, regulations, and 
 
procedures necessary for the discharge of its duties, and shall have 
 
other powers and perform other duties as provided by law. 
It regulates vertically-integrated utilities and cooperatives operating in the Midcontinent 
Independent System Operator, Inc. ("MISO") and Southwest Power Pool, Inc. ("SPP") Regional 
Transmission Organizations ("RTOs"). It has historically exercised jurisdiction and authority 
over the interconnection of all large and small retail loads, retail sales, rates and services, 
generation selection and planning, and the delivery of electricity to retail customers. Until this 
ANOPR, FERC has never exercised authority over retail load interconnections The ANOPR 

--- PAGE 3 ---
- 3 - 
6039401v.1 
proposes to assert federal jurisdiction over end-user consumer interconnection, which appears to 
fall within the exclusive jurisdiction of state retail regulators.  This expansion of federal 
jurisdiction is not needed in MISO South and SPP regions, the members of which mainly consist 
of vertically integrated utilities and cooperatives, and it is not needed in Louisiana and 
Mississippi. 
 
I. 
COMMENTS 
A. Jurisdictional and Cooperative Federalism Concerns 
While the ANOPR purports to address only the interconnection of large loads to the 
interstate transmission system, an issue which viewed in isolation is arguably within the 
jurisdiction of the FERC, the interconnection process accomplishes little without actions to 
evaluate and approve any generation, distribution and intrastate transmission facilities needed to 
maintain reliability and resource adequacy – all matters that are within the exclusive jurisdiction 
of retail regulators. Interconnection of large loads is only one piece of the puzzle.  There must be 
sufficient capacity and energy available to serve that load when needed (now and/or into the 
future) and there must be sufficient transmission and distribution available.1  The Federal Power 
Act does not grant FERC jurisdiction over resource adequacy, e.g., the siting and selection of 
generation needed to serve load.2 That jurisdiction resides solely with the states.3  The FPA 
 
1 Interconnection service is separate and distinct from transmission service. FERC Order No. 2003 is 104 FERC ¶ 
61,103, Docket No. RM02-1-000 (July 24, 2003). 
2 16 U.S.C. § 824(b)(1). 
3  See, e.g., Entergy Nuclear Vt. Yankee, LLC v. Shumlin, 733 F.3d 393, 417 (2d Cir. 2013) (quoting S. Cal. Edison 
Co. San Diego Gas & Elec. Co.,71 FERC ¶ 61,269, at 62,080 (1995) (“[S]tates have broad powers under state law to 
direct the planning and resource decisions of utilities under their jurisdiction.”). FPA section 215, pertaining to 
electric reliability, explicitly leaves the construction of generation and transmission assets to state regulatory 
authority. 16 U.S.C. 824o(i)(2); See also 16 U.S.C. § 824(b)(1).  

--- PAGE 4 ---
- 4 - 
6039401v.1 
specifically precludes FERC from exercising authority “over facilities used for generation of 
electric energy.”4  Section 215(i)(3) of the FPA reserves jurisdiction over the “safety, adequacy, 
and reliability of electric service” to the states.5 The Supreme Court has recognized that states 
retain traditional authority over capacity needs, generator type, licensing, land use, ratemaking, 
and the like.6 FERC is not allowed to “aim at” or “target” matters that Congress reserved to the 
states.7  States are granted the jurisdiction over delivering energy to retail customers8.  The retail 
rates and the terms and conditions of electric service are granted exclusively to the states.  FERC 
jurisdiction is limited to wholesale sales. The ANOPR should not result in rules that intrude upon 
that exclusive jurisdiction. 
FERC should adopt no rules that conflict or interfere with the states' obligation to ensure 
reliability and resource adequacy.   FERC’s historic practice in areas where federal and state 
jurisdiction overlap has been to recognize that a balance must be maintained – cooperative 
federalism. For example, in Order No. 1000, while promoting efficiency through competition in 
transmission development, and despite any effect on wholesale rates, the Commission 
acknowledged state authority over transmission planning, siting and construction.9  
 
4 16 U.S.C. § 824(b)(1). 
5 16 U.S.C. § 824o. 
6 Pacific Gas & Elec. Co. V. State Energy Res. Conservation & Dev., 461 U.S. 190, 212 (1983). 
7 Nat’l Ass’n of Regul. Util. Comm’rs v. FERC (NARUC), 964 F.3d 1177, 1187–88 (D.C. Cir. 2020). 
8 Niagara Mohawk Power Corp. v. FERC, 452 F.3d 822, 825 (D.C. Cir. 2006).   
9 Transmission Planning and Cost Allocation by Transmission Owning and Operating Public Utilities, Order No. 
1000, FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,323, at P 287 (2011), order on reh'g, Order No. 1000-A, 139 FERC ¶ 61,132, order 
on reh'g and clarification, Order No. 1000-B, 141 FERC ¶ 61,044 (2012), aff'd sub nom. S.C. Pub. Serv. Auth. v. 
FERC, 762 F.3d 41 (D.C. Cir. 2014). (The Commission acknowledges that there may be restrictions on the 
construction of transmission facilities by nonincumbent transmission providers under rules or regulations enforced 
by other jurisdictions. Nothing in this Final Rule is intended to limit, preempt, or otherwise affect state or local laws 
or regulations with respect to construction of transmission facilities, including but not limited to authority over siting 
or permitting of transmission facilities.”). 

--- PAGE 5 ---
- 5 - 
6039401v.1 
Even if the FERC technically is granted jurisdiction over large load interconnections to 
the interstate transmission system, it should refrain from exercising that jurisdiction in locations 
where it is not needed under principles of cooperative federalism.  The principle of cooperative 
federalism was described in FERC v. EPSA.  The US Supreme Court in FERC v. EPSA addressed 
the balance between federal jurisdiction over wholesale markets and state jurisdiction over 
demand response. In that instance, it was FERC that argued the importance of respecting state 
authority when exercising federal authority, in that case, the right of a state to veto participation 
in a Regional Transmission Operator (RTO) -sponsored demand response program. 
 
The Supreme Court agreed.  
[T]he finishing blow to both of EPSA's arguments comes from 
FERC's notable solicitude toward the States. As explained earlier, 
the Rule allows any State regulator to prohibit its consumers from 
making demand response bids in the wholesale market. Although 
claiming the ability to negate such state decisions, the Commission 
chose not to do so in recognition of the linkage between 
wholesale and retail markets and the States' role in overseeing 
retail sales. The veto power thus granted to the States belies EPSA's 
view that FERC aimed to “obliterate[ ]” their regulatory authority or 
“override” their pricing policies. And that veto gives States the 
means to block whatever “effective” increases in retail rates demand 
response programs might be thought to produce. Wholesale demand 
response as implemented in the Rule is a program of cooperative 
federalism, in which the States retain the last word. That feature of 
the Rule removes any conceivable doubt as to its compliance with § 
824(b)'s allocation of federal and state authority.10  
 
Here, the “linkage” is between FERC’s potential jurisdiction over large load 
interconnection and the states jurisdiction over resource adequacy. As in FERC v. EPSA, the 
ANOPR, has the potential to adversely affect the state’s role in ensuring reliability and resource 
 
10 FERC v. Elec. Power Supply Ass’n, 577 U.S. 260 (2016). (emphasis added). 

--- PAGE 6 ---
- 6 - 
6039401v.1 
adequacy. Guardrails protecting the state's role under the Federal Power Act should be required.  
The state's jurisdiction of authority over planning, cost allocation and sales to end-use customers 
must be maintained.  
B.  Expansion of Federal Jurisdiction is not Needed in MISO and SPP RTO 
Regions, and it is not Needed in Louisiana or Mississippi. 
The ANOPR provides no sufficient demonstration that the current load interconnection 
process in MISO, SPP. Mississippi, or Louisiana violates the Federal Power Act or has resulted in 
delays in large load interconnections. The FPA requires that substantial evidence be presented 
showing that the existing rate is unjust, unreasonable, unduly discriminatory, or preferential.11 In 
fact Louisiana, Mississippi and their respective state Commissions are working diligently, quickly, 
and effectively to attract and accommodate economic development, because the investment, job 
creation, tax, and other resulting benefits are sorely needed. 
 For example, Louisiana successfully attracted and approved electric resources to serve one 
of the largest data centers in the world that is being built in the state. In December 2024, Meta 
announced that it had selected a site in Richland Parish, Louisiana to construct a $10 billion, AI 
data center (recently revised to $27 billion). The project required new transmission and generation 
resources, including three new Combined Cycle Combustion Turbines ("CCCT") totaling 
approximately 2500 megawatts of capacity.  The Louisiana Commission approved the 
infrastructure resources needed on August 25, 2025, about nine months after Meta's 
announcement.  Working with Entergy Louisiana, LLC, the incumbent utility serving the Meta 
 
11 16 U.S.C. § 824e(a).  
 

--- PAGE 7 ---
- 7 - 
6039401v.1 
facility, and the Midwest Independent System Operator RTO ("MISO"), studies needed for 
interconnection of the generation facilities were initiated utilizing a FERC approved expedited 
interconnection process.  
 In addition, the Louisiana Commission has approved and has under consideration billions 
of new transmission investments for Entergy Louisiana to provide infrastructure for new economic 
development projects, including the announced $5.8 billion Hyundai Steel Mill in Ascension 
Parish, Louisiana. The Louisiana Commission has a proven track record supporting the timely 
consideration of large projects for economic development and domestic manufacturing, including 
the interconnection of large loads to the transmission and distribution systems. 
As a result, any rules adopted should not be a one-size-fits-all proposition. Rules must take 
into account regional differences. State and RTO processes that have worked well should be 
accommodated and not changed.  Flexibility is crucial to meeting the needs of new large loads and 
of the affected states.  
Application of the ANOPR in Mississippi and Louisiana could be detrimental to large load 
interconnections and could delay needed projects. The state Commission processes, as discussed 
above, resulted in the approval of projects needed to interconnect a large data center in less than 
one year.  The large data center and other new loads need rapid interconnection, but also firm 
transmission service, low cost rates, and often access to renewable resources.  States need the 
flexibility to work with the new customers to find mutually acceptable locations for the customer 
facilities and for the utility facilities needed to serve those loads.  By separating the interconnection 
process from the other state obligations, the needed coordination may be disrupted. The local 
transmission and distribution facilities needed to serve new large loads are largely planned from 

--- PAGE 8 ---
- 8 - 
6039401v.1 
the bottom up by the incumbent utilities in a process that considers the needed generation, the 
location of the generation, and the transmission and distribution facilities needed to interconnect 
the new loads together. Giving FERC jurisdiction over the load interconnection as if it were a 
standalone issue would hamper the efficient planning and development of these projects. 
  Further, the states have the authority and duty to develop protective measures in 
approving facilities needed to serve large loads, including measures designed to fairly allocate the 
costs and to protect reliability so that retail ratepayers are not unfairly burdened.  This loss of retail 
control and full visibility could result in a diminishment of these protected measures and delays in 
approvals of the facilities needed to serve large loads, undermining the intended purpose of the 
ANOPR.   
C. The Proposed 20 MW Threshold is Too Low 
 The ANOPR proposes a 20 MW minimum threshold for the definition of “large load” 
consistent with how the Commission defined large generation resources in Order No. 2003. The 
Louisiana and Mississippi Commissions suggest that 20 MW is too low and will result in FERC 
exercising interconnection jurisdiction over hundreds and thousands of new loads, far beyond 
FERC's capabilities of reasonably addressing. The threshold should be far higher and set to only 
address larger loads that are shown to be affected by interconnection delays.  Otherwise, the large 
numbers of interconnection loads might result in more delays rather than creating efficiencies or 
benefits intended by the ANOPR. due to the sheer number of prospective large loads. 
 
 

--- PAGE 9 ---
- 9 - 
6039401v.1 
D. Conclusion 
WHEREFORE, the Louisiana and Mississippi Commissions respectfully request that the 
ANOPR either be reconsidered or substantially modified to protect state jurisdiction and the 
reliability of the electric system, and to preserve a proven successful system of economic 
development in Louisiana, Mississippi, and other similarly situated states against the imposition 
of excessive costs on retail consumers.  In addition, any rules adopted should be applied only in 
areas where delays in load interconnection delay large load interconnections. 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
William D. Booth 
Michael Best & Friedrich LLP 
1000 Maine Avenue, S.W. 
Suite 400  
Washington, D.C. 20024 
Phone: (202) 747-9560 
wdbooth@michaelbest.com 
 
Counsel for the Mississippi Public Service 
Commission 
 
/s / Noel J. Darce 
 
 
 
Noel J. Darce 
Dana M. Shelton 
Justin A. Swaim 
Stone Pigman Walther Wittmann L.L.C. 
909 Poydras Street, Ste. 3150 
New Orleans, LA 70112                               
Ph. (504) 581-3200 
Katherine Collier   
General Counsel  
Barton Norfleet 
Special Counsel; Federal Energy Affairs  
Mississippi Public Service Commission  
501 N. West Street, Suite 201-A  
P.O. Box 1174  
Jackson, MS 39215-1174  
Phone: (601) 961-5821  
Katherine.collier@psc.ms.gov 
Barton.norfleet@psc.ms.gov  
/s/ Kathryn Bowman 
 
 
Kathryn Bowman 
Executive Counsel 
Louisiana Public Service Commission 
P.O. Box 91154 
Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70821-9154 
602 North Fifth Street, Galvez Bldg., 12th 
Fl 
Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70802 
Ph. (225) 342-9888 
Counsel for Louisiana Public Service 
Commission 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 10 ---
- 10 - 
6039401v.1 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
 
I hereby certify that a copy of the above has been served upon the official service list of 
this proceeding by email on November 21, 2025. 
 
___/s / Noel J. Darce 
_ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
