--- PAGE 1 ---
November 21, 2025
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
Commissioners
888 First Street NE
Washington, DC 20426
Dear Commissioners,
We write regarding the Department of Energy's (DOE) recent letter to the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission (FERC) which requested an initiation of a rulemaking process on the 
interconnection of large loads. The rapid growth of data centers, driven by artificial intelligence 
and cloud computing applications, presents both an economic opportunity and new challenges to 
the affordability and reliability of our electric grid.
The impacts of the expansion of both the data industry and the transmission infrastructure 
required to power it are disproportionately affecting residents surrounding the industry. Rate 
payers in markets with data centers have been subject to higher utility bills as the costs of 
transmission upgrades and expansions are distributed based on current allocation practices. 
Additionally, there have been “near miss” incidents in regions with rigorous data center buildout 
which have raised concerns about black outs when clusters of data centers have suddenly 
dropped off the grid. 
We recognize the need for an efficient, standardized, and transparent interconnection process, 
and we urge FERC to ensure the forthcoming rulemaking process fully considers:
1. Safeguards to prevent large load customers from shifting interconnection or transmission 
upgrade costs onto existing rate payers.
2. Clear communication between FERC, state regulators, utilities, and local communities 
before approving large interconnections that may alter demand forecasts or infrastructure 
needs.
3. Authorizing utility-administered curtailment protocols during grid emergencies.
4. Cumulative impacts of multiple large facilities locating within a single region, including 
effects on transmission congestion, local generation adequacy, and resource adequacy 
planning.

--- PAGE 2 ---
5. Robust opportunities for community input.
We respectfully request that FERC include congressional stakeholders and state public utility 
commissions in this process to guarantee that affordability, reliability, and fairness remain a top 
priority of federal energy policy. I look forward to continued engagement with FERC as this 
process advances.
Sincerely,
Suhas Subramanyam
Member of Congress
John W. Mannion
Member of Congress
Mike Quigley
Member of Congress
Donald S. Beyer Jr.
Member of Congress
