--- PAGE 1 ---
1 
 
Public Comment 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) ANOPR on Connecting Large Loads 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
Qualifications and Introduction 
I am Herbert (Herb) Schrayshuen, a licensed professional engineer in the State of New York and a power 
industry consultant. I offer this technical guidance to the FERC regarding a subset of the matters 
presented in the ANOPR related to power system resilience and reliability. My resume is appended to 
these comments for reference. My comments are my own and do not reflect the positions of any of the 
clients served by my company, Power Advisors LLC. 
I respectfully submit these technical comments in response to FERC’s ANOPR on the interconnection of 
large loads to the transmission system related to paragraph 31 principle #14 of the ANOPR. The rapid 
growth of data centers, cryptocurrency mining, and industrial electrification present substantial resilience 
and reliability risk to the power system. These risks are best addressed through the augmentation of  
NERC’s existing mandatory Reliability Standards (some of which are Regional Standards)  or the 
addition of new standards applicable to large load analysis and connection facility design to ensure the 
continued resilience and reliability of the power system. 
 
Reliability Risks of Large Load Integration 
There have been many comments submitted in the ANOPR proceeding regarding 
federal/state jurisdiction, ratemaking, retail rate payer cost protection and general equity. 
While the NERC standards were mentioned in a few cases and many comments call for large 
load entity adherence to applicable NERC mandatory requirements, there is relatively little 
comment on the need for augmentation of specific NERC standards. NERC’s own comments 
focus largely on its large load initiative in the technical areas and on setting the stage for 
registration of large loads, which I also believe is essential to preserve the reliable operation 
of the power system. Large load entities will likely be transmission owners and will be UFLS 
entities as currently defined in the NERC PRC-006-5 standard.  
NERC mentions the FAC-001 and FAC-002 standards related to establishing interconnection 
technical requirements and conducting interconnection studies which examine reliability 
needs of the transmission systems to which the large load will connect. I strongly support 
modification of all currently applicable and potentially applicable standards to specifically 
reference interconnection resilience and reliability risks emanating from large load entity 
connections to the transmission system.  

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
 
Here is a list of key resilience and reliability concerns which are best addressed via NERC’s 
and the Region’s standards processes through augmentation of their respective mandatory 
requirements and regional criteria. 
• 
Resilience Concerns: Inflexible large loads have been demonstrated to reduce the Bulk Electric 
Systems (BES)  ability to withstand disturbances, increasing risks of cascading outages during 
extreme events  
• 
Sudden Concentrated Demand: Large loads can materialize quickly. These loads can 
materialize in less than the five year annual review cycle for automatic underfrequency load 
shedding program functional verification under PRC-006-5. 
• 
Geographic Clustering: As has already been documented in the Northern Virgina disturbances, 
concentrated siting of large loads stresses local transmission infrastructure, creating congestion 
and voltage stability risks. 
• 
Operational Uncertainty: Demand profiles of large loads while often characterized by large 
load advocates as having beneficially high load factors, have also been shown to be volatile over 
short time intervals and therefore have the ability to significantly complicate balancing authority 
operations and generating resource reserve adequacy. 
 
Needed Improvements in NERC Reliability Standards 
What follows is a list of suggested policy actions for the FERC to consider when it issues the 
Notice of Proposed Rulemaking which will emanate from the ANOPR comments. 
1. Automatic Underfrequency Load Shedding (PRC-006-5) 
o The presently approved PRC-006-5 requirements focus on ensuring that the Planning 
Coordinators design automatic UFLS programs to arrest frequency decline after 
disturbances. In its purpose statement the standard characterizes its requirements as the 
last resort system preservation measure. 
o The standard (at R4) unfortunately only requires verification of the functionality of the  
automatic underfrequency load shedding program every five years. This functionality 
review is typically performed on the basis of the installed load, not projected load. 
Although in some areas these studies are performed on a specific forward looking “study 
year” basis. This is a good approach, but not universally required or implemented. It 
should be. The current requirement is: 
“R4 Each Planning Coordinator shall conduct and document a UFLS design 
assessment at least once every five years that determines through dynamic 
simulation whether the UFLS program design meets the performance 
characteristics in Requirement R3 for each island identified in Requirement R2.” 
 
o Some regions have more prescriptive automatic UFLS supporting requirements. In 
particular note:  
• PRC-006-NPCC-2 which builds on the NERC PRC-006-5 standard and 
incorporates compensatory load shedding concepts for situations where certain 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
 
generators are non-conforming from a ride-through perspective. See R13 and R15. 
In NPCC this type of requirement may impact large loads connecting in the NPCC 
Region that propose to also bring generation to their large load installation.  
 
NERC should be encouraged to explore this concept as an addition to 
PRC-006-5. 
 
• PRC-006-SERC - 3 which builds on NERC-PRC-006-5 and provides in its R4 the 
obligations of UFLS Entities (100 MW or greater)  
 
“R4 Each UFLS entity that has a total load of 100 MW or greater in a Planning 
Coordinator area in the SERC Region shall implement the UFLS scheme 
developed by their Planning Coordinator. UFLS entities may implement the UFLS 
scheme developed by the Planning Coordinator by coordinating with other UFLS 
entities…” 
. 
o I recommend that the FERC offer policy guidance in its NOPR to promote NERC 
augmentation of  PRC-006-5 as follows: 
• The FERC should direct NERC to make PRC-006 universally forward looking by 
requiring review and analysis of automatic UFLS program functionality through 
simulation studies prior to the interconnection and energization of large loads. 
Taking this step would ensure that automatic UFLS schemes are not compromised 
by the addition of large concentrated electric demand and that sufficient identified 
load is available for inclusion in automatic load shedding programs to stabilize 
frequency in response to system disturbances. 
• Alternatively, the FERC can direct that automatic underfrequency load shedding 
programs be evaluated on an interval more frequently than the present five-year 
interval. 
• Review the two regional standards and possibly other less formal regional 
processes being used to manage automatic underfrequency load shedding 
programs. Identify opportunities to coordinate and bring the best automatic 
underfrequency program management practice features into a future version of  
PRC-006-5. 
• Consider as a matter of policy that large loads do to their size should become 
UFLS Entities as the term in used within the PRC-006-5 standard because of their 
tremendous impact on the load situation for the connecting Transmission Owner. 
UFLS entities shall mean all entities that are responsible for the 
ownership, operation, or control of UFLS equipment as required by the 
UFLS program established by the Planning Coordinators. Such entities 
may include one or more of the following: 4.2.1 Transmission Owners 
4.2.2 Distribution Providers 4.2.3 UFLS-Only Distribution Providers 
o No matter which policy path is pursued,  automatic underfrequency load shedding 
programs must be analyzed on a forward looking basis, taking into account the presence 

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
 
of large loads, rather than on an “as connected basis” after electric service facilities are 
designed, committed and energized to service the large load.  
o While recognizing that not all large load projects are certain to be built, and to facilitate 
the forward looking analysis, uniform inclusion rules must be developed by planning 
coordinators so that large load projects and their impact on automatic underfrequency load 
shedding programs can be analyzed with confidence. It is best also, to the extent possible, 
to conduct the analysis in clusters when large load projects are concentrated in portions of 
the transmission system.  
FERC proposals or directives for action of this kind in its NOPR will ensure that automatic UFLS 
programs are fully analyzed and most importantly are not compromised by the unstudied addition 
of concentrated demand. The studies will set the stage to assure that sufficient load is placed 
under automatic UFLS program control to achieve the resilience goal of stabilizing frequency and 
arresting frequency decline after a system disturbance. 
2. Transmission Planning (TPL-001-5.1) 
A fundamental principle of prudent power system engineering is that the power system should 
not be placed into an unstudied state. There are a number of mandatory NERC standards that 
embody this principle, but TPL-001-5.1 is at the core of implementing this approach from a 
system planning perspective.  
I recommend that the FERC take action in its NOPR to: 
• Explore the need for augmentation of the TPL-001-5.1 to require explicit 
modeling of large, concentrated loads in both near term and long term planning 
assessments even if those projects are offering to take non-firm “flexible” electric 
service. 
• While recognizing that not all large load projects are certain to be built, uniform 
inclusion rules must be developed so that the large load project’s impact on power 
deliverability can be analyzed with confidence regarding their likely 
materialization and in clusters if concentrated on portions of the transmission 
system, rather than individually.  
• Mandate sensitivity studies that stress-test transmission system planning scenarios 
involving simultaneous large load growth and sudden large load loss under the 
appropriate transmission and generation contingencies identified in Table 1 of the 
standard. 
• Direct NERC to modify Table 1 contingencies if they are not adequate to the 
purpose of testing the transmission system for large load operating behavior. 
• Direct NERC to consider whether amendments to footnote 12 and to Attachment 1 
of Table 1 of  TPL-001-5.1 are needed to accommodate large load projects willing 
to be “flexible”, i.e., willing to take non-firm electricity service. This will allow 
utility planning processes to adapt and provide service flexible large loads willing 
to take non-firm service in a way that complies with the standard. As it stands, 
offering non-firm transmission service may not meet the requirements in TPL-001. 
Under the current requirements, it is not permitted to plan the transmission system 
to provide electric service under TPL-001-5.1 on a non-firm basis (i.e., permitting 
non-consequential load loss).  

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
 
 
3. Interconnection Process and Operational Requirements 
The interconnection process is where resilience and reliability risks should be identified as early 
as possible for the benefit of the existing electricity customers and for the benefit of the new large 
load customers. To make sure that the risks are surfaced early enough to take prudent engineering 
and design action, the following actions by the FERC are recommended for consideration: 
o The FERC should consider taking action to:  
• Require all regional transmission organizations, planning coordinators and 
transmission owners to establish minimum technical interconnection requirements 
for connecting large loads, similar but not identical to generator requirements 
(unless the new large load bringing its own generation to the process), including 
voltage support, frequency ride-through, and demand response capability. These 
directives would be best applied in future versions of NERC Standards FAC-001 - 
4 and FAC-002-4 as also noted in NERC’s ANOPR comments at page 4. 
• Authorize NERC to register large load entities as Transmission Owners and 
Transmission Operators if the new large load interconnecting facilities qualify as 
BES Elements and are not turned over to the incumbent connecting Transmission 
Owners and Transmission Operators for operation and maintenance after 
commissioning.  
• For situations where new large load entities are proposing to implement Remedial 
Action Schemes (RAS) to possibly avoid FERC jurisdiction, to require that such  
large load sponsored RAS based solutions be designed (or at least reviewed 
subject to approval) owned and operated by existing connecting Transmission 
Owner to bring such RAS within the scope of PRC-012-2 for RAS design and 
PRC-017-1 for RAS maintenance. 
 
Alignment with NERC Large Load Task Force Findings 
Since the FERC is aware of NERC’s Large Load Initiative as described in NERC’s ANOPR filing, take 
note of NERC’s characterization of the significant risk to resilience and reliability the may result from 
large loads.  
For reference and at a high level the NERC Large Load Task Force (LLTF), in its April 2025 report, 
highlighted several critical points: 
• 
“UFLS program adequacy must be reassessed in light of large load interconnections, as existing 
schemes may not provide sufficient frequency stabilization.” 
• 
“Large loads are materializing faster than traditional planning processes can adapt.” 
• 
“Existing Reliability Standards do not explicitly address the unique risks posed by concentrated 
demand growth.” 
• 
“Enhanced coordination between load developers, transmission planners, and balancing 
authorities is essential to mitigate reliability risks.” 

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
 
These findings by NERC reinforce the need for the FERC to direct NERC to revise PRC 006, TPL-001, 
and other standards as appropriate to explicitly incorporate power system resilience and reliability 
preservation considerations in utility planning. There is an urgent need for large load integration and 
operations process modification. At a minimum changes and augmentation of the processes governed by 
PRC-006 and TPL-001 are necessary. Other standards which support these standards will also require 
attention as necessary1. 
 
Recommendations for FERC Oversight of Large Load Interconnection Processes 
Ongoing FERC oversight of large load resilience and reliability risks to the transmission system will be 
needed to monitor the significant risk to resilience and reliability posed by incorrectly planned large load 
additions. 
To ensure timely action to stay “ahead of the curve” with respect to the forgoing resilience and reliability 
risks, I recommend that the FERC consider: 
• 
Directing that NERC report annually (or at an interval suitable to the FERC and NERC) to the 
FERC on the adequacy2 of manual and automatic UFLS programs and resilience planning in each 
US Interconnection. 
• 
Direct NERC to initiate a process to develop standards authorization requests and file modified or 
new standards responsive to the resilience and reliability concerns identified above within a time 
frame of FERC’s choosing (suggested to be two years or less) to assure reliable and resilient large 
load integration that does not compromise the reliable operation of the BES.   
 
Conclusion 
The integration of large loads represents a transformative challenge to the resilience and reliability of the 
power system. Without augmented and strengthened NERC Reliability Standards, particularly PRC-006, 
and TPL-001, the resilience and reliability of the power delivery system will be compromised with the 
addition of unprecedented numbers of large load projects.  
FERC should act decisively in its NOPR to ensure that mandatory reliability standards evolve ahead of 
these emerging risks, safeguarding power system resilience and reliability. FERC through its nationwide 
responsibility under Section 215 of the Federal Power Act, must at a minimum deliver continued 
resilience and reliability of the power system for all users to meet the expectations outlined on NERC’s 
2013 informational filing with the FERC regarding the planning and operational outcomes that are 
expected in order to deliver an “adequate level of reliability”3.  
 
1 Additional standard families which may be impacted include MOD, FAC, EOP, TPL  and other PRC 
standards besides PRC-006. 
2 See NERC Informational filing regarding on the Definition of "Adequate Level of Reliability” NERC 
Informational Filing in RR06-1-000 May 10, 2013. 
3 See filing referenced in footnote 2, in particular performance objective #4. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
 
The power system will quickly reveal if the FERC, NERC, registered entities get it wrong through 
outages that are more extensive, exhibit more lengthy recovery times, and are more damaging to hard to 
replace power delivery equipment. Such outages run the risk of additional loss of life, way beyond what 
was experienced in Texas during Winter Storm Uri.4 Such unacceptable outcomes can be mitigated with 
proper engineering foresight, planning foresight and by requiring thoughtful forward looking technical 
review and analysis of the connection of the proposed large loads prior to design, construction and 
energization.  
The FERC should consider the forgoing comments in the interest of public health and safety when 
crafting the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking addressing large load interconnection. While the above 
comments may seem like an expansion of NERC rules into the load sector which has been primarily the 
province of the US States, the fact remains that large city size loads connected to the transmission system 
have a direct impact on the resilience and reliability of the interconnected North American power 
systems.  
Thank you in advance for your attention and thoughtful consideration to the forgoing comments in the 
development of the Large Load NOPR. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Herb Schrayshuen, P.E. 
December 4, 2025 
 
 
4 Winter Storm Uri official death toll report-Texas 

--- PAGE 8 ---
Resume: Herbert (Herb) Schrayshuen 
4408 Jack-in-the-Pulpit Circle 
Manlius, N.Y. 13140 
315-439-1390 
herb@poweradvisorsllc.com 
 
Current Title 
& Activity: 
Since February 2013, Principal, Power Advisors, LLC providing consulting services to the 
electric utility industry with experience in: 
 
Utility asset management 
 
Utility power system planning and reliability 
 
Utility reliability regulation including NERC standards compliance related matters 
 
Regulatory matters and dispute resolution   
Prior 
Titles and 
Activities: 
VP & Director Reliability Assessment and Performance Analysis (2012-2013) - North 
American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC)  
VP & Director Standards & Training (2010-2012) – NERC 
Director Reliability Assessment – SERC (2008-2010), 
VP Reliability Compliance – National Grid (2006-2007), 
VP Transmission Commercial Services – National Grid (2002-2006) 
Director System Electric Assets – Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation (1999-2002) 
Previous – numerous roles of increasing accountability within the managerial, technical, and 
engineering functions of Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation and American Electric Power. 
Relevant 
Experience: 
Over 40 years’ experience in the electric power industry including engineering and regulatory 
roles for the industry including reliability regulation under NERC mandates. Managed technical 
groups in disciplines including, engineering, reliability regulations, asset management, 
transmission and distribution engineering, transmission planning, project management, 
transmission account management, and transmission siting.  Provided expert testimony in 
regulatory and civil legal forums, settlements and transaction design. Extensive experience in 
generation, transmission and distribution system operations, power transactions, planning and 
asset health issues.  Leadership roles in many FERC and state regulatory proceedings, 
disputes resolution and policy making activities. Two examples are coordination of National 
Grid’s interrogatory responses to the Eastern Interconnection Blackout of 2003 and 
participation in the development and implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 with 
respect to electric industry reliability regulation leading to the formation of the Electric 
Reliability Organization (ERO) as NERC.   
 
Education & 
Training: 
Masters Business Administration – Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute  
ME-Electric Power Engineering – Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute  
BE-Stevens Institute of Technology  
General Electric Power System Engineering Course  
Numerous professional and executive development programs 
 
Professional  
Affiliations: 
Life Member, Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers  
Member, North American Electric Reliability Corporation  
 
Member Representatives Committee (2017-2018) 
 
Member Reliability Issues Steering Committee (2017-2018) 
 
Licensed Professional Engineer-New York # 58441 
 
Secretary – New York State Reliability Council Executive Committee  
 
