--- PAGE 1 ---
1 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
) 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Interstate Transmission System 
) 
 
 
 
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO INTERVENE AND COMMENTS  
OF ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY 
 
Pursuant to Rules 211, 212, and 214 of the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission’s (“Commission” or “FERC”) Rules of Practice and Procedure,1 Arizona 
Public Service Company (“APS” or “Company”) hereby moves for leave to intervene in 
and comment in response to FERC’s Notice Inviting Comments2 on the October 23, 2025 
Department of Energy’s (“DOE”) Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking Ensuring the 
Timely and Orderly Interconnection of Large Loads.3 
In support thereof, APS states as follows: 
I. 
INTRODUCTION 
In the ANOPR, the Secretary of Energy directed FERC to consider potential 
rulemaking to ensure the timely and orderly interconnection of large loads to the 
transmission system. 
 
 
 
1   18 C.F.R. §§ 385.211, 385.212 and 385.214 (2025). 
2  
Notice Inviting Comments, Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Dkt 
No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 27, 2025) (“FERC Notice”). 
3  
Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, Ensuring the Timely and Orderly Interconnection of Large 
Loads, Dkt No. RM26-4-000 (filed Oct. 27, 2025) (“ANOPR”). 
 

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
II. 
CORRESPONDENCE AND COMMUNICATIONS 
The names and addresses of the people upon whom all communications concerning 
this proceeding should be served are as follows: 
Farris Gillman 
Senior Attorney 
Pinnacle West Capital Corporation 
400 North 5th Street 
Mail Station 8695 
Phoenix, AZ 85004 
(602) 250-3648 
Farris.Gillman@pinnaclewest.com 
Thomas McCall 
Manager, Federal Regulation 
Arizona Public Service Company 
400 North 5th Street 
Mail Station 9712 
Phoenix, AZ 85004 
(602) 250-4783  
Thomas.McCall@aps.com 
 
 
 
III. 
DESCRIPTION OF APS 
APS, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pinnacle West Capital Corporation, is a 
vertically-integrated public utility doing business under the laws of the State of Arizona. 
APS is engaged in the business of generating, transmitting and distributing electricity to 
eleven of Arizona’s fifteen counties. APS serves more than one million retail electric 
customers in Arizona and participates in wholesale markets throughout the West. APS 
provides transmission service pursuant to its Commission-approved Open Access 
Transmission Tariff (“OATT”) and owns facilities used for the sale and transmission of 
electric energy in interstate commerce. In addition, APS is authorized to sell wholesale 
power at both market-based rates (subject to certain restrictions) and cost-based rates. APS 
is also a transmission customer, taking service under its OATT as well as under the 
transmission tariffs of other transmission providers in the West. APS is registered with the 
North American Electric Reliability Corporation (“NERC”) for purposes of compliance 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
with the Electric Reliability Standards and performs 10 of the registered NERC functions.4 
IV. 
MOTION TO INTERVENE 
Pursuant to Rule 214 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Procedure,5 APS 
moves for leave to intervene in Docket No. RM26-4-000 (and all future sub-dockets) with 
full rights as a party. As a vertically integrated public utility that serves the type of load 
that is the subject of ANOPR, APS has a direct and substantial interest in this proceeding 
and will be directly impacted by its outcome. Moreover, APS’s unique interest in the 
proceeding cannot be adequately represented by any other party.6 Accordingly, 
intervention by APS is in the public interest and is in accordance with Commission 
regulations and good cause exists for the Commission to grant APS’s motion to intervene. 
V. 
COMMENTS 
APS appreciates the DOE’s desire to address large load interconnection issues on 
a national scale and the recent FERC Notice issued on the matter requesting comments. 
APS also recognizes the significant undertaking faced by FERC to implement a detailed 
set of rules for utilities and regional markets for these large loads to interconnect into the 
transmission system. APS has been working with the Arizona Corporation Commission 
and stakeholders for years to ensure that (1) APS meets its obligation to serve all customers 
within its service territory, including these new large loads, (2) interconnecting these large 
loads does not jeopardize reliability for existing customers, and (3) the substantial 
infrastructure investments required to connect and serve these large loads will be paid for 
 
4  APS is currently registered with NERC as a Balancing Authority, Transmission Operator, Transmission 
Owner, Transmission Planner, Transmission Service Provider, Planning Authority, Generation Operator, 
Generation Owner, Resource Planner, and Distribution Provider. 
5  
18 C.F.R. § 385.214 (2025).  
6   Id.  

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
by those new large load customers, not existing customers. APS would urge FERC to 
provide draft rules to the public for comment with sufficient time to address and 
incorporate the resulting feedback. APS does have concerns regarding the requested 
implementation date for this proposed rulemaking that could have significant impacts on 
all stakeholders. APS is hopeful that FERC will provide a detailed proposal with sufficient 
time for input from stakeholders and state public utility commissions, which will allow the 
Commission to fully evaluate industry feedback that can account for regional, state, or even 
individual entity differences. 
At this time, the Company does not have specific concerns with the general 
concepts described in the ANOPR and only a few concerns with specifics therein. APS 
does believe that the 20 MW threshold for what is considered a large load could be 
increased. In addition, the ANOPR’s position of a 60-day study timeline might be 
inadequate dependent on the information required for the study itself, and the timeline 
should be determined in consultation with the stakeholders and transmission planners.  
APS does have a number of questions regarding potential implementation of the DOE’s 
proposed principles. Some of the questions APS has identified so far are as follows: 
1. 
Is the utility expected to back up all, some, or none of the load for a large 
load that is co-locating with a generator? 
2. 
Will hybrid facilities be expected to match the NERC requirements? For 
example, when there is fast-ramping or fluctuations of load, will the generator have to 
match the load to avoid frequency deviations on the transmission system that are caused 
by mismatches between the generation and load? Without a clear requirement for hybrid 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
facilities to meet the standards, the burden would fall to the host utility to manage frequency 
deviations caused by mismatches. 
3. 
Relatedly, regardless of whether there is a co-locating generator, will the 
interconnecting load have to also install equipment so that if their fast-ramping causes 
frequency disturbances, the utility can pinpoint it?   
4. 
Is the intention that generators could either go through (1) the traditional 
generator interconnection process or (2) the load interconnection process with a co-located 
generator? 
5.  
The ANOPR says that load and hybrid facilities should be studied together 
with generating facilities, to the extent practicable.7 What safeguards will there be to 
prevent delays to the generator interconnection process given the increase in complexity of 
the study process, and the increased likelihood of required restudies due to load or 
generation withdrawing? 
6. 
What safeguards, if any, will be in place to ensure that a transmission 
service provider will not be studying the same generation as a standalone generator through 
the generator interconnection process and as a co-locating generator for load, potentially 
double counting the generation? 
7. 
For a hybrid facility, if the load ceases operation, would the generator then 
be required to go offline until it goes through the generator interconnection process?  
8. 
Will there be safeguards to ensure that there is no cost shift between new 
large load customers and other transmission or retail customer classes? 
 
7 
See ANOPR at P 20. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
9. 
The ANOPR states that the load will be responsible for network upgrades. 
Will the costs be handled like network upgrades in the existing generator interconnection 
process, through direct assignment, or through some separate rate treatment? Will it be 
specified or left open for negotiation?   
10. 
Will transmission system upgrades required to deliver power to large loads 
qualify as network upgrade costs for the load, or just those costs required to connect them 
to the transmission system?  
 
11. 
FERC jurisdictional Transmission Service Providers serve a number of load 
serving entities, some that are FERC jurisdictional and some that are not. Will all large 
loads connecting to a Transmission Service Provider’s system go through the same 
interconnection process, regardless of their load serving entity?  
If FERC proceeds with developing a detailed proposed rule on the principles 
outlined in the ANOPR, the Company respectfully requests that the Commission consider 
these questions and concerns. APS intends to evaluate any draft proposed rule with a focus 
on system reliability and economic impact. Given these considerations, APS respectfully 
requests that the Commission consider APS’s comments as a contribution to the large load 
interconnection rulemaking process. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
VI. 
CONCLUSION 
WHEREFORE, for the reasons set forth herein, APS respectfully requests leave to 
intervene in Docket No. RM26-4-000 as well as in all future sub-dockets and requests that 
the Commission accept APS’s comments.  
Respectfully submitted, 
/s/ Farris Gillman 
 
 
Farris Gillman 
Senior Attorney 
Pinnacle West Capital Corporation 
400 North 5th Street 
Mail Station 8695 
Phoenix, AZ 85004 
Farris.Gillman@pinnaclewest.com 
 
On behalf of Arizona Public Service 
 
Company 
 
Dated: November 21, 2025 
 

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
 
I hereby certify that I have on this day caused a copy of the foregoing Motion for 
Leave to Intervene and Comments of APS to be served upon each person designated on 
the official service list compiled by the Secretary of the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission for Docket No. RM26-4-000 in accordance with the requirements of Rule 
2010 of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s Rules of Practice and Procedure. 
 
 
Dated as of the 21st day of November 2025. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/ Farris Gillman 
 
 
Farris Gillman 
