--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE  
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate 
Transmission System 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
 
 
PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY’S OPENING COMMENTS ON 
PROPOSED ADVANCE NOTICE OF PROPOSED RULEMAKING 
 
CHARLES R. MIDDLEKAUFF 
WILLIAM BRENC 
 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company  
Law Department, 19th Floor  
300 Lakeside Drive, Suite 210  
Oakland, CA 94612  
Telephone: (925) 359-5652  
Email: Charles.Middlekauff@pge.com 
 
ATTORNEYS FOR 
PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY 
 
Dated:  November 21, 2025 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
 
1 
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE  
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate 
Transmission System 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
 
PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY’S OPENING COMMENTS ON 
PROPOSED ADVANCE NOTICE OF PROPOSED RULEMAKING 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E) respectfully submits these comments 
in response to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (Commission) Notice 
Inviting Comments issued in this proceeding on October 27, 2025. 
  PG&E recognizes the critical importance of expeditiously addressing issues 
related to large loads, including data centers, interconnecting into the electrical 
transmission system and appreciates the initiative of Department of Energy (“DOE”) 
Secretary Wright requesting that the Commission consider a proposed Advanced Notice 
of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) to address large load interconnection issues.  As 
Secretary Wright explained, adopting efficient, timely, and non-discriminatory large load 
interconnection rules is essential to facilitating the growth of data centers and other large 
load customers and spurring growth in the American economy. 
For more than a year now, PG&E has been undertaking similar efforts in 
California to develop a streamlined, transparent, and equitable approach for 
interconnecting large load customers to PG&E’s extensive electric transmission system 
located throughout Northern and Central California.  In 2024, PG&E proactively initiated 
discussions with multiple stakeholders to develop solutions, launched a first of its kind 
cluster study process to study transmission system impacts from large load 
interconnections and to develop cost-effective solutions, and proposed a new electric 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
 
2 
 
rule—referred to as “Electric Rule 30”—to the California Public Utilities Commission 
(“CPUC”) to interconnect new large load customers.  PG&E’s goal in drafting Electric 
Rule 30 was to develop a timely, cost-effective interconnection process that equitably 
balanced the interests of large load customers and existing ratepayers.   
Based on our experience to date with Electric Rule 30 and large load 
interconnections, PG&E believes that three key principles are essential to any final 
Commission rule:  
• Protecting existing ratepayers from incurring additional or stranded costs 
while also adopting fair and equitable cost responsibility and allocation 
approaches for large load customers; 
• Appropriately balancing state and Commission jurisdiction and developing 
a complimentary and cooperative framework, while also ensuring timely 
state action on large load issues; and 
• Developing clear rules that will expedite large load interconnections by 
allowing flexibility rather than imposing additional requirements that slow 
the interconnection process. 
In these opening comments, PG&E provides:  
(1)  an overview of Electric Rule 30, including how PG&E is addressing 
jurisdictional issues;  
(2)  an overview of its 2024 and 2025 cluster study process;  
(3)  comments on the fourteen principles identified by Secretary Wright for 
the ANOPR; and  
(4)  a discussion regarding the importance of timely state action and 
grandfathering.   
PG&E looks forward to actively working with the DOE, Commission, and 
stakeholders to develop fair, equitable, and balanced rules that will help facilitate the 
interconnection of large load customers in California and throughout the United States. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
 
3 
 
I. 
OVERVIEW OF PG&E’S ELECTRIC RULE 30 INCLUDING 
JURISDICTIONAL ISSUES 
A. 
Overview of Electric Rule 30 
PG&E has interconnected new retail electric customers to its electrical system for 
decades.  The vast majority of these customers were connected to the electric distribution 
system and had loads less than one megawatt (“MW”), although some customers did 
have larger loads and connected into the transmission system.  In 2023, however, PG&E 
experienced a significant increase in applications for transmission-level interconnections.  
This trend accelerated in 2024.  By the end of 2024, the megawatts of large load 
customers requesting transmission-level interconnections exceeded existing transmission-
level customers’ megawatts by 4,000%.  While many of the 2023-2024 applications were 
for data centers, other customers such as manufacturing, electric vehicle charging, and 
government/university customers are also requesting transmission-level interconnections.  
PG&E expects that this trend will continue over the coming years.  
In order to provide a clear, transparent, and uniform set of rules for large load 
customer interconnections, PG&E proactively organized an internal team to develop a 
new electric rule and associated form agreement for transmission-level large load 
customers.  PG&E also initiated stakeholder outreach to seek feedback and input from the 
CPUC’s Energy Division, ratepayer advocates groups, other utilities, and potential large 
load customers.  Based on its internal process and feedback from stakeholders, PG&E 
developed Electric Rule 30. 
In November 2024, PG&E filed an application at the CPUC for approval of 
Electric Rule 30.1  Since that time, parties in the proceeding have conducted extensive 
discovery, submitted prepared testimony, and participated in three days of hearings.  
 
1  
Electric Rule 30 was submitted in Application 24-11-007 at the CPUC.  Information regarding the 
proceeding, including filings, orders and other materials is available at: Proceeding Details. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
 
4 
 
Parties are now completing post-hearing briefing with final reply briefs due November 
24, 2025.  The CPUC is expected to issue a final decision in the first quarter of 2026. 
Proposed Electric Rule 30 concerns the interconnection of retail electric customers 
at voltages of 50 kilovolts (“kV”) and above (i.e., transmission level).  Key provisions in 
Electric Rule 30 address: 
• Design, construction, location, and ownership of the facilities 
necessary to interconnect a new large load customer; 
• Customer requests for facilities above and beyond PG&E standards 
(e.g., redundant lines or certain kinds of equipment) referred to as 
“Special Facilities” and the associated cost responsibility for Special 
Facilities; 
• Installation and metering requirements for new large load customers; 
• Advances, contributions, and actual cost payments by large load 
customers for new interconnection facilities, as well as refunds for 
these amounts; and, 
• The option for a large load customer to build its own facilities and 
transfer ownership to PG&E. 
Electric Rule 30 includes engineering, construction, and cost responsibility requirements 
for new transmission-level large load customers interconnecting to PG&E’s transmission 
system.  Electric Rule 30 does not address: (1) electric supply (i.e., generation) costs; (2) 
retail rates once service commences; (3) other utility programs such as energy efficiency 
or demand response; and (4) post-energization operational requirements. 
At a high level, Electric Rule 30 requires large load customers to upfront fund 
interconnection facilities (e.g., direct connection lines, substations/switchyards, etc.).  
Once the large load customer’s facility is energized and the customer is producing 
revenues for the electric system, the customer is eligible for a refund of some or all of its 
upfront funding based on the revenues it is producing.  When revenues from large load 
customers exceed the incremental interconnection costs, they offset costs paid by existing 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
 
5 
 
ratepayers.  PG&E expects that existing ratepayers can see bill reductions as a result of 
large load customer interconnections and the corresponding revenues produced by these 
customers.  PG&E has estimated that in certain scenarios, existing ratepayers could 
potentially receive up to $3,000 in bill savings over a 10-year period of time if a 
substantial number of large load customers interconnect to the transmission system. 
Electric Rule 30 does not require large load customers to prefund upgrades to the 
existing transmission network although, as described below, customers can provide pre-
funding loans to accelerate this work.  Absent a pre-funding loan from the customer to 
accelerate work, transmission upgrade costs are paid by PG&E and included in rates for 
all transmission customers.  Courts and the Commission have routinely held that the 
integrated transmission network benefits all customers connected to the network and thus 
costs, including upgrade costs, should be allocated to all customers.2  Moreover, many 
upgrades serve multiple purposes, such as providing capacity for multiple new customers 
and facilitating electrification and load growth.  Thus, under Electric Rule 30, the costs 
for transmission network upgrades are included in transmission rates paid by all 
customers, including large load customers.  Based on PG&E’s analysis, even when the 
transmission network upgrade costs are factored in, PG&E still expects existing 
ratepayers will see bill reductions as a result of large load interconnections.   
PG&E’s Electric Rule 30 proposal also includes safeguards and protections to 
mitigate potential detrimental impacts to existing ratepayers from large load 
interconnections.  For example, PG&E has proposed a 10-year minimum demand 
charge3, a 15-year contract term, and early termination fees if a large load customer shuts 
 
2  
Paragould Light & Water v. FERC, 144 F.4th 287, 294 (4th Cir. 2025); Duke Energy Progress, LLC v. 
FERC, 106 F.4th 1145, 1155 (D.C. Cir. 2024); Municipal Energy Agency of Nebraska, et al. v. Public 
Service Company of Colorado, 189 FERC ¶ 61,099 (2024), r’hrg denied, 190 FERC ¶ 61,158 (2025); 
see also Public Service Company of Colorado, 62 FERC ¶ 61,013 (1993).  
3  
Under Electric Rule 30, minimum demand charges start in the fifth year after energization, which 
gives the customer an opportunity to ramp up its facility to full load, and then continue for a ten-year 
period until the fifteenth year after energization. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
 
6 
 
down its facility during the contract term.  In addition, PG&E has a rigorous 
interconnection process that requires the large load customer to provide upfront funding 
at each step in the process.  This process helps avoid speculative load interconnection 
requests and prevents PG&E from incurring stranded costs if a large load customer 
decides not to proceed. 
Finally, Electric Rule 30 addresses important “speed to market” issues.  By 
establishing a uniform tariff and standard form agreement, Electric Rule 30 removes the 
regulatory delays caused by one-off contract negotiations and subsequent review by the 
CPUC.  Previously, the time required for contract negotiations and regulatory approval 
was well over a year.  Electric Rule 30 can reduce that time to weeks or a few months at 
most.  Electric Rule 30 also includes provisions that will facilitate large load facility 
speed to market.  For example, Electric Rule 30 allows for as pre-funding loans to 
accelerate upgrades to the existing transmission system and provisions which allow a 
customer to contribute land or equipment which can reduce the amount of time needed to 
acquire land or supply cycles for equipment purchases. 
B. 
Jurisdictional Considerations for Electric Rule 30 
Jurisdiction is one of the issues that has come up in the Electric Rule 30 
proceeding and has been raised in the ANOPR.4  As PG&E has explained in the Electric 
Rule 30 proceeding, the CPUC has jurisdiction over PG&E’s provision of retail electric 
service, including retail electric service to distribution-level and transmission-level 
customers.  As a matter of California state law, a utility such as PG&E must provide 
service to new retail electric customers upon request.5  Under PG&E’s Commission-
 
4  
ANOPR at PP 2, 13-16. 
5  
Cal. Pub. Util. Code, § 451 (“Every public utility shall furnish and maintain such adequate, efficient, 
just, and reasonable service, instrumentalities, equipment, and facilities . . . as are necessary to 
promote the safety, health, comfort, and convenience of its patrons, employees, and the public.”); see 
also Lukrawka v. Spring Va. Water Co., 169 Cal. 318, 332 (1915).  The provision of retail service is 
different than setting the rates and cost allocation for transmission-level facilities.  

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
 
7 
 
approved Transmission Owner (“TO”) Tariff, the CPUC also has jurisdiction over a retail 
customer’s interconnection request.6  Section 8.1 of PG&E’s TO Tariff provides: 
8.1  
Participating TO Obligation to Interconnect  
The Participating TO shall, at the request of a third party pursuant to 
Section 10, interconnect its system to the wholesale generation or 
wholesale load of such third party, or modify an existing wholesale 
Interconnection.  Interconnections under this TO Tariff shall be 
available to entities eligible to request Interconnection consistent 
with the provisions of Section 210(a) of the FPA.  Interconnections 
requested by entities or individuals that are not so eligible shall be 
governed by the Local Regulatory Authority.  The procedures for 
Interconnections of wholesale generation to the ISO Controlled Grid 
shall be governed by the ISO Tariff. 
PG&E understands that retail electric customers are not eligible “entities or individuals” 
under this provision and thus interconnection requests by these customers are governed 
by the “Local Regulatory Authority” (i.e., the CPUC). 
However, the CPUC does not have jurisdiction over cost allocation, rates, or cost 
recovery for all of the interconnection facilities affected by Electric Rule 30.  The 
appropriate cost recovery jurisdiction for electric transmission facilities is determined 
based on whether the transmission facilities: (1) are under the California Independent 
System Operator Corporation’s (“CAISO”) operational control; and (2) have any degree 
of integration into the transmission network.7  To the extent transmission facilities are not 
under the CAISO’s operational control and/or are not integrated into the transmission 
network, cost allocation, rates, and cost recovery for those facilities is subject to the 
CPUC’s jurisdiction.  To the extent transmission facilities are under the CAISO’s 
 
6  
As explained below, jurisdiction over a request for an interconnection of a retail customer’s facility is 
not the same as jurisdiction over rates, cost allocation, and cost recovery for network transmission 
facilities. 
7  
See, e.g., Pacific Gas and Electric Company, 108 FERC ¶ 61,297 (2004) ; see also Department of 
Water Resources v. FERC, 489 F.3d 1029 (9th Cir. 2007);  see also PG&E’s Transmission Owner 
Tariff § 1 (TO tariff addresses “revenue requirements and applicable rates and charges for 
transmission access and transmission reliability services over the ISO Controlled Grid…”).  

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
 
8 
 
operational control and are a part of the integrated transmission network, cost allocation, 
rates, and cost recovery are Commission-jurisdictional. 
II. 
OVERVIEW OF PG&E’S CLUSTER STUDIES 
In 2024, recognizing the significant growth in large load interconnection requests, 
PG&E initiated a pilot cluster study process to evaluate new interconnection requests as a 
groups rather than the traditional serial study process.  The 2024 cluster study focused on 
new transmission level retail electric customers located in Alameda and Santa Clara 
counties, California.  The cluster process utilizes a streamlined approach to identify:  (1) 
upgrades needed to serve potential new transmission level retail electric customers; and 
(2) opportunities for these potential new customers to share costs for new facilities that 
could be used by multiple customers.  PG&E believes that a cluster group study will help 
drive meaningful results that consider system capability and develop solutions to meet 
customer timelines and establish shared cost responsibility.  This streamlined cluster 
approach will also support developing a consolidated engineering and implementation 
plan.  The 2024 cluster study was successful and PG&E has continued to work with 
participants on engineering, design and interconnection agreements.  PG&E initiated a 
second cluster study in 2025 which is still ongoing.   
III. 
PG&E’S COMMENTS ON THE FOURTEEN PRINCIPLES IDENTIFIED 
BY SECRETARY WRIGHT AND TIMELINE/GRANDFATHERING 
ISSUES 
A. 
ANOPR Principles 
The ANOPR proposal includes fourteen principles.  PG&E addresses each of these 
principles below. 
1. 
Jurisdiction 
The ANOPR proposes that any Commission rules be limited to interconnection 
directly to transmission facilities, consistent with the Commission’s seven factor test.8  
 
8  
ANOPR at P 18. 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
 
9 
 
PG&E agrees that this limitation is appropriate, but there may be additional limitations to 
the Commission’s jurisdiction that should be reflected in any final rule.  For example, the 
Commission recently rejected a tariff proposed by the Tri-State Generation and 
Transmission Association (“Tri-State”) because the proposal implicated the terms and 
conditions of retail electric service.9  As the Commission explained, the Federal Power 
Act (“FPA”) delegates to “states alone, the regulation of ‘any other sale’—most notably, 
any retail sale—of electricity.  Section 201 of the FPA also provides that the 
Commission’s jurisdiction is limited to ‘those matters which are not subject to regulation 
by the states.’”10  The Commission went on to explain that the Supreme Court has: 
clarified that because the FPA limits the Commission’s jurisdiction to 
wholesale sales, reserving regulatory authority over retail sales to the 
states alone, a regulation that ‘specifies terms of sale at retail’ would 
exceed the Commission’s authority under the FPA.11 
Thus, in developing any final rule, the Commission should consider FPA limitations on 
retail electric sales issues as well as matters that are subject to state jurisdiction. 
In addition, with regard to co-location issues, any final rule should be consistent 
with the Commission’s determination earlier this year “the states get to determine which 
entities are legally permitted to provide electricity to retail customers in co-location 
arrangements.  The states also get to determine how the wholesale costs of providing 
electricity to those retail customers are recovered through retail rates.  That is true 
irrespective of where the load interconnects (i.e., to the distribution system, the 
transmission system, or the generator itself).”12  The Commission also noted that states 
“have authority over their generation resource mix, including through their siting 
authority.  This means that which generating resources are sited and allowed to operate to 
 
9  
Tri-State, 193 FERC ¶ 61,070 (2025) at P 49 (“Tri-State”). 
10  Tri-State at P 46 (footnotes omitted). 
11  Tri-State at P 47 (footnotes omitted). 
12  PJM Interconnection, et al., 190 FERC ¶ 61,115 (2025) (“PJM”) at P 69. 

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
 
10 
 
serve co-located load is also a question of state law.”13  Finally, the Commission 
explained: 
the Commission has exclusive authority over the rates, terms, and 
conditions for the sales from generating resources used to serve co-
located loads, as well as the practices directly affecting such sales, 
provided that they are sales for resale in interstate commerce.  If they 
are not sales for resale—that is, if they are made directly to the end-use 
consumer—or if they are not in interstate commerce then the co-located 
generator’s sales are under state jurisdiction.14 
In short, the Commission should be mindful that “the Commission and states each 
regulate within separate zones of exclusive jurisdiction, with the states retaining authority 
over those matters not expressly conveyed to the Commission under the FPA.”15 
2. 
Applicability 
The ANOPR proposes that any final rule only apply to: (1) new loads; and (2) 
facilities over 20 MW.16  PG&E agrees that any final rule should only apply to “new 
loads.”  To provide further clarification, the Commission should define “new loads” as 
customers that have not yet submitted an interconnection application to a utility or 
transmission provider as of the effective date of any Commission final rule issued in this 
proceeding.17  As described above, PG&E is currently working with numerous potential 
large load customers who are at various stages in the interconnection process.  These 
stages include preliminary engineering studies, more detailed engineering studies, 
execution of an interconnection agreement, detailed design work, and construction of 
new interconnection facilities.  These large load customers are moving forward based on 
the current rules and requirements in effect.  To change these rules mid-stream would 
 
 
13  PJM at P 70 (footnotes omitted). 
14  PJM at P 71 (footnotes omitted). 
15  PJM at P 67. 
16  ANOPR at P 19. 
17  See Sections III.A.13 and III.C below (describing PG&E’s implementation proposal). 

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
 
11 
 
create uncertainty and likely cause customers to pause the interconnection process as they 
evaluate the new rules and requirements.  This would result in the exact opposite of what 
Secretary Wright emphasized, the need for expeditious action. 
To avoid delays and the uncertainty of potential mid-stream changes, PG&E 
strongly recommends that the Commission make clear that a final rule will only apply to 
large load customers who have not yet submitted an interconnection application to a 
utility and/or transmission provider as of the date of the Commission issues a decision.  
PG&E’s proposal for timing and grandfathering are addressed in more detail below in 
Sections III.B and C.  Large load customers that submit an interconnection application 
after the final rules are effective and implemented will be well-aware of the 
Commission’s requirements and can make and/or adjust their plans accordingly.  The 
Commission should also clarify that the final rule does not apply to large load customers 
who are already receiving electrical service.  There is no reason to apply prospective 
interconnection rules to customers who are already interconnected and receiving service. 
As to the 20 MW limit, PG&E is not opposed to using 20 MW as a threshold to 
define large load for purposes of a new Commission rule. 

--- PAGE 13 ---
 
 
12 
 
3. 
Studying Load, Hybrid Facilities, and Generation Together 
The ANOPR proposes that “to the extent practicable” load, hybrid facilities18, and 
generating facilities should be studied together to promote efficient siting and to 
minimize network upgrade costs.19  PG&E recommends that the Commission not 
mandate a single study approach but instead allow individual utilities and/or Regional 
Transmission Organizations and Independent System Operators (“RTO/ISO”) to decide 
the most efficient way to coordinate planning.  In many parts of the country, the existing 
generation interconnection process is already under severe strain.  Interconnection queues 
have grown and studies are taking months or years to complete and then must often be 
updated.  Adding into this mix load and hybrid facility interconnections may only 
exacerbate this problem.  In some parts of the country, load and hybrid facility 
interconnection requests may be able to be seamlessly added to the generation 
interconnection process.  In other parts of the country, adding this new requirement to an 
already overburdened process may be detrimental. 
In California, after a retail electric large load customer submits an interconnection 
application, PG&E performs a preliminary engineering study that identifies necessary 
interconnection facilities and provides a preliminary cost estimate for interconnection.  
These preliminary engineering studies, as well as subsequent more detailed studies, are 
shared with the CAISO.  The CAISO performs an annual Transmission Planning Process 
(“TPP”) which takes into account information provided by PG&E, other utilities, 
California agencies such as the CPUC and California Energy Commission to develop an 
overall transmission development plan for the CAISO controlled grid.  Thus, in 
California, load and generation information is already combined for purposes of 
developing a statewide transmission plan.  The CAISO’s current process works well.  
 
18  The ANOPR defines a hybrid facility as a facility where load and a generation facility share an 
interconnection point.  See ANOPR at P 12. 
19  ANOPR at P 20. 

--- PAGE 14 ---
 
 
13 
 
The Commission should avoid imposing a one-size-fits-all approach.  To the extent an 
RTO/ISO and/or utility planning process already incorporates both generation and load 
forecasts, and is working well, the Commission should avoid establishing new 
requirements that may slow down or stall the existing approach. 
4. 
Standard Deposits, Readiness Requirements, and Withdrawal 
Penalties 
The ANOPR proposes standardized deposits, readiness requirements, and 
penalties for load and hybrid facilities.20  PG&E supports this proposal as an effective 
way to address speculative projects and to provide transmission providers with useful 
information.  PG&E’s current interconnection process requires non-refundable deposits at 
various stages of the process and potential large load customers are required to provide 
information in order for studies to proceed.  The Commission should allow some regional 
flexibility on the amount of the deposits, information needed for readiness requirements, 
and withdrawal penalties, but PG&E is generally supportive of including these types of 
provisions in a final rule. 
5. 
Hybrid Facility Studies 
The ANOPR proposes that hybrid facilities be studied based on the amount of 
injection and/or withdrawal rights required and provides an example of a 500 MW load 
and 600 MW generator that are co-located seeking no withdrawal rights and 100 MW of 
injection rights.21  This aspect of the ANOPR is problematic and requires modification.  
This proposal does not account for the likely situation that for any given time period, a 
co-located generator may be off-line (requiring the load to solely utilize the transmission 
system) or a large load facility may be partially or completely off-line or using less 
energy than forecasted (resulting in the generator injecting more into the transmission 
 
20  ANOPR at P 21. 
21  ANOPR at P 22. 

--- PAGE 15 ---
 
 
14 
 
system).  It is unrealistic to assume that a generator will always be operating or that load 
is always consistent.  This is exactly why co-located facilities are generally connected to 
the transmission system, so that the generator and/or load can continue to receive service 
or inject power if the other facility is off-line. 
Rather than requiring that studies be conducted on potentially unrealistic 
assumptions, the Commission should direct that hybrid facilities be studied under 
multiple potential scenarios so that the interconnection facilities can be designed and built 
to accommodate the inevitable circumstance of a generator or large load being partially 
or wholly off-line.  All reasonable scenarios should be considered so that the transmission 
system is sufficiently robust to receive, for example, 600 MW of injection or provide 500 
MW to serve the large load customer.  
6. 
System Protection Requirements 
The ANOPR asks for comments on whether hybrid facilities should be required to 
install system protections to prevent unauthorized injections/withdrawals that exceed 
their rights, what the technical requirements would be for these system protections, and 
whether hybrid facilities should be subject to penalties for unauthorized injections or 
withdrawals.22  If a hybrid facility has agreed to injection and/or withdrawal limits, 
PG&E supports the installation of equipment that meets all technical standards that would 
limit the injections or withdrawals from the hybrid facility.  To the extent such equipment 
is not available, PG&E supports financial penalties for a hybrid facility in circumstances 
where it exceeds its injection/withdrawal limit. 
7. 
Expedited Studies for Curtailable and/or Dispatchable Facilities  
The ANOPR proposes that large loads and hybrid facilities that agree to be 
curtailable and/or dispatchable are eligible for expedited interconnection studies.23  In 
 
22  ANOPR at P 23. 
23  ANOPR at P 24. 

--- PAGE 16 ---
 
 
15 
 
general, PG&E strongly supports large loads and hybrid facilities agreeing to be 
curtailable and/or dispatchable.  The ability to curtail and/or dispatch facilities provides 
important operational flexibility for the electrical grid and may allow a utility to avoid 
transmission infrastructure costs, which benefits existing ratepayers.  However, the 
Commission should not adopt a blanket rule that large loads and hybrid facilities offering 
curtailment/dispatchability always receive expedited consideration.  There may be 
situations where a utility or transmission provider has limited transmission planning 
resources and those resources are already fully committed to studying interconnections 
which were previously submitted and have been pending for some time.  The 
Commission rule should provide that large load and hybrid facilities offering to be 
curtailable and/or dispatchable will be prioritized in the interconnection process, but these 
customers will not necessarily go to the “front of the line” or displace other customer 
projects that are well along in the interconnection process.  
In addition, the Commission should avoid layering onto the existing generation 
interconnection process expedited studies for curtailable and/or dispatchable facilities.  
The generator interconnection process is already complex and adding in a new study 
process for curtailable and/or dispatchable facilities, even if it is expedited, may cause 
delays in an already lengthy process and impact projects already going through 
interconnection studies.  
Finally, to the extent the Commission includes an expedited process in its final 
rule, it should be clear what it means to be “expedited” and should not impose 
unreasonable time frames that cannot be attained given current resource and personnel 
limitations at the utilities and/or RTOs/ISOs. 
8. 
Cost Responsibility for Network Upgrades 
The ANOPR proposes that load and hybrid facilities be responsible for 100% of 
the network upgrades they are assigned through the interconnection process, subject to a 

--- PAGE 17 ---
 
 
16 
 
potential refund or crediting mechanism.24  This aspect of the ANOPR requires both 
clarification and revision.   
First, the ANOPR needs to be clarified as to what network upgrade costs are being 
referred to as “assigned through the interconnection process.”  A transmission provider or 
utility may already have been planning network upgrades to accommodate forecasted 
load growth or for reliability that also have the added benefit of providing capacity for a 
new large load or hybrid facility.  In this case, the large load customer should not be 
responsible for 100% of the costs for network upgrades that were already planned.  
Similarly, network upgrades may be planned to serve a number of new large load and 
hybrid facilities, as well as forecasted load growth for other reasons such as organic load 
growth, electrification, and/or electric vehicles.  In this case, the network upgrade costs 
should not be 100% assigned to a single large load or hybrid facility.  To the extent the 
Commission adopts this aspect of the ANOPR, it will need to be very clear in its rule as 
to what “assigned in the interconnection process” means and will need to address the 
variety of scenarios that can arise related to network upgrades, such as those described 
above. 
Second, any Commission rule will need to be clear as to what constitutes a 
“network upgrade.”  For example, is a network upgrade limited to upgrades to the 
existing transmission system or does it also include a new switchyard or substation 
needed to serve a large load or hybrid facility.  In addition, are the lines connecting a new 
large load or hybrid facility “network upgrades.”  Any Commission rule will need to 
provide a clear definition of network upgrades so that utilities and transmission providers 
have a bright line to apply when determining cost responsibility. 
Third, requiring a large load or hybrid facility to pay 100% of the network upgrade 
costs without any opportunity for refunds is contrary to judicial and Commission 
 
24  ANOPR at P 25. 

--- PAGE 18 ---
 
 
17 
 
precedent.  As described above in Section I.A, there is well-established judicial and 
Commission precedent that all customers benefit from the integrated transmission 
network and thus upgrade costs should be borne by all customers.25  Large load and 
hybrid customers should be eligible for refunds based on the electric retail revenues 
produced from these facilities.  Unlike generators, which often do not pay retail electric 
rates and do not produce substantial revenues which can offset interconnection 
infrastructure costs, large load and hybrid facilities generally pay retail electric rates 
which, in part, offset the costs of the infrastructure needed for these facilities.  Thus, it is 
appropriate for the purpose of refunds to treat large load and hybrid facilities differently 
than generators given the difference in revenues produced to pay infrastructure costs. 
Finally, in any rule, the Commission should allow for regional variations.  Each 
state has a unique retail electric rate structure which could influence the type and amount 
of refunds provided.  For example, in Electric Rule 30, PG&E has proposed that large 
load customers upfront fund interconnection facilities but, once the customer is 
energized, it would be eligible for refunds based on the revenues it produces.  PG&E’s 
Electric Rule 30 also includes additional safeguards for existing customers if a large load 
does not materialize, such as minimum demand charges, a minimum contract term, and 
early termination fees.  These Electric Rule 30 provisions strike a careful balance 
between protecting existing customers and recognizing the revenues produced by large 
load customers.  PG&E’s proposal works, in part, because of the unique rate structures 
and rate design in California.  The Commission should avoid a one-size-fits-all approach 
to cost responsibility and refunds especially given the unique rate structures and designs 
 
25  Paragould Light & Water v. FERC, 144 F.4th 287, 294 (4th Cir. 2025); Duke Energy Progress, LLC v. 
FERC, 106 F.4th 1145, 1155 (D.C. Cir. 2024); Municipal Energy Agency of Nebraska, et al. v. Public 
Service Company of Colorado, 189 FERC ¶ 61,099 (2024) (“Municipal Energy Agency of 
Nebraska”), r’hrg denied, 190 FERC ¶ 61,158 (2025); see also Public Service Company of Colorado, 
62 FERC ¶ 61,013 (1993).  

--- PAGE 19 ---
 
 
18 
 
in each state.  Instead, the Commission should allow utilities and/or states to develop a 
cost responsibility and refund proposal that is right for that utility and/or state. 
9. 
Customer Option to Build 
The ANOPR proposes that an interconnection customer be afforded the same 
option to build as offered to generators.26  PG&E generally supports an interconnection 
customer’s option to build, but there are several important clarifications that need to be 
made to this proposal. 
First, the Commission needs to clearly state which facilities an interconnection 
customer can build.  For example, an interconnection customer should not be able to 
perform upgrades to a utility’s existing infrastructure (e.g., reconductoring a transmission 
line for more capacity, adding a transformer bank to existing substation, etc.).  Moreover, 
an interconnection customer should not be able to connect into the existing utility 
transmission system if doing so could create reliability or safety issues. 
Second, the Commission should be clear that ownership of the customer 
constructed facilities must be transferred to the utility after the facilities are completed 
and before energization.  Customer built electric facilities will become a part of the 
integrated transmission system and thus should be owned and maintained by the utility 
and, where applicable, operated by the RTO/ISO.  If the customer retains ownership, it 
may not maintain the facilities in a prudent or safe manner which could have cascading 
impacts on the entire transmission system.  Moreover, the facilities constructed by a 
customer may be used by other customers.  For example, if a customer built a two bay 
substation, but only needed one bay, the remainder of the substation could be used to 
serve other customers.  Or, even if the customer used both bays, if the substation could be 
expanded to serve other customers, the substation should be owned by the utility so it 
could perform the expansion and maintain compliance requirements for asset reliability, 
 
26  ANOPR at P 26. 

--- PAGE 20 ---
 
 
19 
 
operations and management.  The Commission risks creating a balkanized electric 
transmission system if bits and parts of it are owned by large load customers.  Moreover, 
the electric transmission system could also be inefficiently planned if, for example, a 
customer owned a substation and then refused to expand it to serve another nearby large 
load customer.  In short, the Commission rules should require that ownership of all 
customer built facilities be transferred to the utility prior to energization so that these 
facilities can be operated and maintained as a part of the transmission network. 
The requirement that the utility ultimately own facilities constructed by a customer 
is consistent with well-established Commission precedent.  In Order No. 2003-A, the 
Commission noted that “[w]e agree with NYTO that requiring the Transmission Provider 
to cede ownership of Stand-Alone Network Upgrades and the Transmission Provider's 
Interconnection Facilities to the Interconnection Customer is inconsistent with existing 
Commission precedent.”27 While Order No. 2003-A allowed a utility and customer to 
voluntarily agree that the customer would own certain facilities, customer-ownership is 
not required.  Rather, for operational and reliability reasons, Order No. 2003-A makes 
clear that utility-ownership is the preferred option.  
Third, the Commission should include in its final rule cost containment provisions 
for customer built facilities to avoid the construction of facilities that are excessively 
expensive.   
Fourth, consistent with Commission precedent, the Commission should require 
interconnection customers to allow utilities to review any engineering designs to ensure 
uniformity with the utility’s existing standards and to monitor construction to ensure that 
the facilities to be transferred to the utility are built to the appropriate specifications to 
 
27  Standardized Generator Interconnection Agreements and Procedures, Order No. 2003-A, 106 FERC 
¶ 61,220 (2004) (“Order No. 2003-A”) at P 230; see also Order No. 2003-B, 109 FERC ¶ 61,287 
(2004) at P 85. 

--- PAGE 21 ---
 
 
20 
 
avoid any potential negative impacts on reliability or safety.28  While utility employees 
will not be performing the construction, they should be given the ability to monitor 
design and construction throughout the process.  A large load customer should also be 
required to provide as-built drawings at the completion of construction.29 
10. 
Studies for Existing Generation 
The ANOPR proposes that for existing generation facilities seeking to enter a 
partial suspension to serve a new large load customer, the generator be required to 
undertake a system support resource (“SSR”) or reliability must run (“RMR”) study.30  
The ANOPR also states that: (1) the study should look out three years; (2) partial 
suspension can only proceed after network upgrades to ensure reliability are placed into 
service; and (3) any network upgrades are the responsibility of the generator.  PG&E 
supports this proposal and notes that a similar process already exists for the CAISO.  It is 
important that existing generators be available for or otherwise ensure reliability for all 
customers on the electrical grid rather than agreeing to serve a single large load customer 
at the expense of other customers. 
11. 
Utility Transmission Service for Withdrawal Rights 
The ANOPR proposes that utilities serving large load and hybrid facilities be 
responsible for transmission service based on the withdrawal capacity of the facility.31  
PG&E agrees that utilities and/or RTOs/ISOs should generally be responsible for 
planning and ensuring adequate capacity to provide service, including withdrawal 
capacity, to a new large load or hybrid facility.  In California, retail load interconnection 
planning is performed by the utility in coordination with the CAISO.  This process works 
well and trying to shift the responsibility to the CAISO, for example, would result in 
 
28  Order No. 2003-A at P 232. 
29  Order No. 2003-A at P 237. 
30  ANOPR at P 27. 
31  ANOPR at P 28. 

--- PAGE 22 ---
 
 
21 
 
delays and further strain CAISO resources.  The Commission should provide flexibility 
for RTOs/ISOs and utilities to develop processes that appropriately allocate planning 
responsibility, such as the current arrangement in California. 
12. 
Ancillary Services 
The ANOPR proposes that utilities serving large load and hybrid facilities be 
responsible for ancillary services based on peak demand, without consideration of co-
located generation, and that co-located generation be compensated for ancillary 
services.32  There are several issues with this proposal.   
First, the Commission has already acknowledged that RTOs and ISOs have 
established markets to procure the ancillary services needed in their territories and thus it 
is unclear why this responsibility would now be placed on utilities.   
Second, if utilities are required to procure ancillary services on behalf of large load 
and hybrid facilities, the large load and hybrid facility customer should fully compensate 
the utility for the ancillary service costs. 
Third, co-located generation can be compensated for ancillary services if that 
generation is able to satisfy the ancillary service requirements.  Co-located generation 
should not be allowed preferential treatment.  If a co-located generator can satisfy the 
RTO/ISO and/or utility ancillary service requirements, it should be entitled to 
compensation similar to any other generator that provides these services. 
13. 
Reform Implementation and Grandfathering 
The ANOPR indicates that the Commission should develop a plan to implement 
the proposed new rule.33  PG&E strongly agrees that a clear and transparent 
implementation plan is critical.  If the Commission’s final rules are issued in April 2026, 
as requested by Secretary Wright, the rules should be effective when issued.  However, 
 
32  ANOPR at P 29. 
33  ANOPR at P 30. 

--- PAGE 23 ---
 
 
22 
 
the Commission should also include an implementation period in the final rules.  This 
will allow utilities and RTOs/ISOs to review the Commission’s final rule, develop and 
submit tariff language if needed, and to prepare for implementation.  While expediting 
this process is essential given the importance to the American economy and strategic 
interests, it is equally as important that RTOs/ISOs and utilities be given adequate time to 
develop the necessary processes and procedures so that implementation can occur 
without hiccups, ensuring the continued safe and reliable operation of the grid. 
For large load customers currently being studied, PG&E strongly suggests that 
these studies be allowed to continue.  As explained in more detail below in Section III.C, 
large load customers who have already started the interconnection process have done so 
based on existing rules and requirements—changing these rules and requirements mid-
stream will be disruptive and will likely delay interconnection for these customers.  
PG&E recommends that any new rules adopted by the Commission only apply to large 
load and hybrid customers submitting interconnection applications/requests after the 
Commission’s final rule becomes effective.  Customers submitting applications/requests 
before that time should be able to proceed under the then-existing interconnection 
processes.  
14. 
NERC Reliability Standards 
Finally, the ANOPR proposed that large loads meet all applicable NERC 
reliability standards and Open Access Transmission Tariff (“OATT”) provisions.34  
PG&E agrees with this proposal and believes that large load customers should be 
responsible for ongoing compliance with applicable NERC requirements and OATT 
provisions. 
 
34  ANOPR at P 31. 

--- PAGE 24 ---
 
 
23 
 
B. 
Establishing Timelines for State Action  
In a number of areas, PG&E has proposed that the Commission adopt a flexible 
approach that can be tailored to meet state-specific needs and requirements.  However, 
the Commission should also be clear in a final rule that, where flexibility is available, the 
states cannot indefinitely delay action.  To the extent a state fails to act or provide clear 
guidance and rules by the implementation deadline, a utility should be able to submit a 
Section 205 filing to the Commission proposing tariff provisions for that utility that are 
consistent with the Commission’s decision.  This way, a utility is not caught in regulatory 
limbo if the state fails to act in a timely or prompt manner.  A utility should be able to 
propose to the Commission utility-specific tariff provisions and requirements for large 
load and hybrid facility interconnections in the absence of state action in areas where the 
Commission gives states flexibility. 
C. 
Grandfathering 
As PG&E explained above, in its service territory there is significant activity 
regarding large load interconnections.  Other states are experiencing similar trends related 
to substantial interconnection requests.  Large load customers submitting these requests 
have relied on the existing rules and requirements in their economic decisions, in 
developing facility proposals and moving ahead with facility construction.  The 
Commission should not delay or complicate these efforts by changing the rules mid-
stream.  Instead, PG&E recommends that large load customers that submit 
interconnection applications/requests prior to the effective date of the final rule be 
allowed to proceed under the rules and requirements in place at the time the 
interconnection request was submitted.  Moreover, customers who are or will soon be 
interconnected and energized should not be subject to new rules and requirements after 
the fact. 

--- PAGE 25 ---
 
 
24 
 
IV. 
CONCLUSION 
PG&E appreciates the leadership of Secretary Wright and the Commission and 
looks forward to working with the Commission and stakeholders to develop transparent, 
fair and equitable interconnection rules that balance the interests of large load customers 
and existing ratepayers. 
 
Dated: November 21, 2025 
Respectfully Submitted, 
CHARLES MIDDLEKAUFF 
WILLIAM BRENC 
By:       /s/ Charles Middlekauff 
       CHARLES MIDDLEKAUFF 
Charles Middlekauff  
Pacific Gas and Electric Company  
Law Department, 19th Floor  
300 Lakeside Drive, Suite 210  
Oakland, CA 94612  
Telephone: (925) 359-5652 
Email: Charles.Middlekauff@pge.com  
Attorneys for 
PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY 
 

--- PAGE 26 ---
 
 
25 
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
I hereby certify that I have on this day caused a copy of the foregoing document to 
be served upon all parties designated on the official service list in this proceeding in 
accordance with the requirements of Rule 2010 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice 
and Procedure. 
Dated at Vacaville, California, this 21st day of November, 2025. 
 
 
/s/ Annabel Mosqueda-Striplin 
ANNABEL MOSQUEDA-STRIPLIN 
PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY 
Law Department, 19th Floor 
300 Lakeside Drive, Suite 210 
Oakland, CA  94612 
 
 

--- PAGE 27 ---
 
Page 1 of 18 
 
THE FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION SERVICE LIST 
 
Downloaded:  November 21, 2025 
 
FERC DOCKET NO. RM26-4 
 
Total number of addressees:  261 
 Charles Middlekauff Chief Counsel 
John Rohrbach ED Regulatory 
 Pacific Gas and Electric Company  
ACES POWER MARKETING  
 Law Department Post Office Box 1018 
4140 W 99TH ST  
 Oakland CALIFORNIA 94604-1018   
CARMEL INDIANA 46032   
   FOR:  Pacific Gas and Electric Company 
  FOR:  Southern Maryland Electric Cooperative, Inc. 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Benjamin Reiter  
Mitchell Myhre Manager of Transmission Planni 
 Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP  
ALLIANT ENERGY  
 2001 K Street, N.W.  
4902 N BILTMORE LN  
 Washington DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20006   
MADISON WISCONSIN 53718   
   FOR:  GERONIMO POWER, LLC 
  FOR:  Alliant Energy Corporate Services, Inc. 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Mary Emerson Corporate Counsel 
Stacey Martinez Paralegal 
 Alliant Energy Corporation  
American Transmission Company LLC  
 801 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW  
W234N2000 RIDGEVIEW PARKWAY CT  
 WASHINGTON DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20004   
WAUKESHA WISCONSIN 53188   
   FOR:  Alliant Energy Corporate Services, Inc. 
  FOR:  American Transmission Company LLC 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Betty Camargo Paralegal 
Sean Bodkin  
 Arizona Corporation Commission  
Arizona Corporation Commission  
 1200 W WASHINGTON ST  
1200 W WASHINGTON ST  
 PHOENIX ARIZONA 85007   
PHOENIX ARIZONA 85007   
   FOR:  Arizona Corporation Commission 
  FOR:  Arizona Corporation Commission 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 John Newton Principal Regulatory Senior Ma 
Kenneth L Dillon Contracts Engineer 
 Ava Community Energy  
Avista Corporation  
 1999 HARRISON ST STE 2300  
Spokane WASHINGTON 99220   
 OAKLAND CALIFORNIA 94612   
  FOR:  Avista Corporation 
   FOR:  Ava Community Energy 
  Status:  PRIN 
   Status:  PRIN 
 Jessica Melms  
Jessica Melms  
 Braun Blaising & Wynne, P.C.  
Braun Blaising & Wynne, P.C.  
 2600 Capitol Avenue Suite 400 
2600 Capitol Avenue Suite 400 
 Sacramento CALIFORNIA 95816   
Sacramento CALIFORNIA 95816   
   FOR:  Balancing Authority of Northern California 
  FOR:  California Municipal Utilities Association 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Aleksandar Mitreski  
Steve Kelly Director 
 Brookfield Energy Marketing Inc.  
Brookfield Energy Marketing LP  
 68 Ellington St  
3261 Arters Mill Rd  
 Longmeadow MASSACHUSETTS 01106   
Westminster MARYLAND 21158   
   FOR:  Brookfield Renewable Trading and  
  FOR:  Brookfield Renewable Trading and  
 Marketing LP 
Marketing LP 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 

--- PAGE 28 ---
 
Page 2 of 18 
 
THE FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION SERVICE LIST 
 
Downloaded:  November 21, 2025 
 
FERC DOCKET NO. RM26-4 
 
Total number of addressees:  261 
 Maureen Jorgensen VP, Market Development &  
Katy L Morsony  
 Comme 
California Community Choice Association  
 Calibrant Energy  
1121 L ST STE 400  
 1 FINANCIAL CTR  
SACRAMENTO CALIFORNIA 95814   
 BOSTON MASSACHUSETTS 02111   
  FOR:  California Community Choice Association 
   FOR:  Calibrant Energy 
  Status:  PRIN 
   Status:  PRIN 
 CalCCA Regulatory  
Camden Weber  
 California Community Choice Association  
Center for Biological Diversity  
 1121 L Street Suite 400 
1411 K ST NW STE 1300  
 SACRAMENTO CALIFORNIA 95814   
WASHINGTON DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20005   
   FOR:  California Community Choice Association 
  FOR:  Center for Biological Diversity 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Hannah Muller  
Trey Mayeux Manager-Miso Policy 
 Clearway Energy Group LLC  
Cleco Power LLC  
 2 Aurora Ave  
2030 Donahue Ferry Rd  
 Saratoga Springs NEW YORK 12866   
Pineville LOUISIANA 71360   
   FOR:  Clearway Energy Group LLC 
  FOR:  Cleco Power LLC 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Karen Cornelio Paralegal 
Karen Cornelio Paralegal 
 Con Edison Company of New York  
Con Edison Company of New York  
 4 IRVING PL  
4 IRVING PL  
 NEW YORK NEW YORK 10003   
NEW YORK NEW YORK 10003   
   FOR:  Consolidated Edison Company of New  
  FOR:  Rockland Electric Company 
 York, Inc. and Orange and Rockland Utilities, Inc. 
  Status:  PRIN 
   Status:  PRIN 
 Dana Lazarus Director 
Dana Lazarus Director 
 Con Edison Company of New York  
Con Edison Company of New York  
 4 Irving Place  
4 Irving Place  
 New York NEW YORK 10003   
New York NEW YORK 10003   
   FOR:  Rockland Electric Company 
  FOR:  Consolidated Edison Company of New  
   Status:  PRIN 
York, Inc. and Orange and Rockland Utilities, Inc. 
 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Ekenedilinna O Umeike Project Manager 
Ekenedilinna O Umeike Project Manager 
 Consolidated  Edison Company of New York, Inc.  
Consolidated  Edison Company of New York, Inc.  
 4 Irving Place 18th Floor 
4 Irving Place 18th Floor 
 New York NEW YORK 10003   
New York NEW YORK 10003   
   FOR:  Rockland Electric Company 
  FOR:  Consolidated Edison Company of New  
   Status:  PRIN 
York, Inc. and Orange and Rockland Utilities, Inc. 
 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Joshua A Kirstein Senior Attorney 
Joshua A Kirstein Senior Attorney 
 Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc.  
Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc.  
 Consolidated Edison Co. of New York, Inc. 4 Irving  
Consolidated Edison Co. of New York, Inc. 4 Irving  
 Place-18th Floor 
Place-18th Floor 
 New York NEW YORK 10003   
New York NEW YORK 10003   
   FOR:  Consolidated Edison Company of New  
  FOR:  Rockland Electric Company 
 York, Inc. and Orange and Rockland Utilities, Inc. 
  Status:  PRIN 
   Status:  PRIN 

--- PAGE 29 ---
 
Page 3 of 18 
 
THE FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION SERVICE LIST 
 
Downloaded:  November 21, 2025 
 
FERC DOCKET NO. RM26-4 
 
Total number of addressees:  261 
 Robert Haggart Project Specialist 
Robert Haggart Project Specialist 
 Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc.  
Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc.  
 and Orange and Rockland Utilities, Inc.  
and Orange and Rockland Utilities, Inc.  
 4 IRVING PL FL 17  
4 IRVING PL FL 17  
 NEW YORK NEW YORK 10003   
NEW YORK NEW YORK 10003   
   FOR:  Consolidated Edison Company of New  
  FOR:  Rockland Electric Company 
 York, Inc. and Orange and Rockland Utilities, Inc. 
  Status:  PRIN 
   Status:  PRIN 
 Paul A. Savage  
Paul A. Savage  
 Consolidated Edison Development, Inc.  
Consolidated Edison Development, Inc.  
 4 Irving Place  
4 Irving Place  
 New York NEW YORK 10003   
New York NEW YORK 10003   
   FOR:  Rockland Electric Company 
  FOR:  Consolidated Edison Company of New  
   Status:  PRIN 
York, Inc. and Orange and Rockland Utilities, Inc. 
 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Courtney L Kennedy  
Joel Yu Director of Regulatory & Legis 
 Duquesne Light Company  
Enchanted Rock, LLC  
 411 7TH AVE MD 15-1 
1113 VINE ST STE 101  
 PITTSBURGH PENNSYLVANIA 15219   
HOUSTON TEXAS 77002   
   FOR:  Duquesne Light Company 
  FOR:  Enchanted Rock, LLC 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Juan Diaz Director RA and IA 
Elizabeth T Pearlman Assistant Director, Policy, Pu 
 Enel Companies (Enel Green Power North  
Illinois Commerce Commission  
 America, Inc. and EnerNOC, Inc.)  
160 N LaSalle Street Suite C-800 
 100 BRICKSTONE SQ STE 300  
Chicago ILLINOIS 60601   
 ANDOVER MASSACHUSETTS 01810   
  FOR:  Illinois Commerce Commission 
   FOR:  Enel North America, Inc. 
  Status:  PRIN 
   Status:  PRIN 
 Linda M Morrison Docket Administrator 
Nancy Chafetz Senior Director, Regulatory an 
 ISO New England Inc.  
LS POWER CORPORATION  
 One Sullivan Rd  
1001 Fleet St Unit 400   
 Holyoke MASSACHUSETTS 01040   
Baltimore MARYLAND 21202   
   FOR:  ISO New England Inc. 
  FOR:  Enerwise Global Technologies, LLC dba  
   Status:  PRIN 
CPower 
 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Krista L Hawley, ESQ Hearing Officer, Dept. Public 
David S. Mabry  
 Massachusetts Department of Public Utilities  
McNees Wallace & Nurick LLC  
 One South Station 5th Floor 
100 Pine Street  
 Boston MASSACHUSETTS 02110   
Harrisburg PENNSYLVANIA 17101   
   FOR:  Massachusetts Department of Public  
  FOR:  PJM Industrial Customer Coalition 
 Utilities 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Matthew Garber Attorney 
Matthew Garber Attorney 
 McNees Wallace & Nurick LLC  
McNees Wallace & Nurick LLC  
 100 PINE ST  
100 PINE ST  
 HARRISBURG PENNSYLVANIA 17101   
HARRISBURG PENNSYLVANIA 17101   
   FOR:  PJM Industrial Customer Coalition 
  FOR:  Industrial Energy Consumers of America 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 

--- PAGE 30 ---
 
Page 4 of 18 
 
THE FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION SERVICE LIST 
 
Downloaded:  November 21, 2025 
 
FERC DOCKET NO. RM26-4 
 
Total number of addressees:  261 
 Matthew Garber Attorney 
Lauren Huff Paralegal 
 McNees Wallace & Nurick LLC  
McNees Wallace & Nurick LLC  
 100 PINE ST  
100 Pine Street P.O. Box 1166 
 HARRISBURG PENNSYLVANIA 17101   
Harrisburg PENNSYLVANIA 17108   
   FOR:  Coalition of MISO Transmission Customers 
  FOR:  PJM Industrial Customer Coalition 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Susan E Bruce  
Kenneth R Stark  
 McNees Wallace & Nurick LLC  
McNees Wallace & Nurick LLC  
 100 Pine St P.O. Box 1166 
100 PINE ST  
 Harrisburg PENNSYLVANIA 17101   
HARRISBURG PENNSYLVANIA 17101   
   FOR:  American Forest & Paper Association 
  FOR:  PJM Industrial Customer Coalition 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Susan E Bruce  
Matthew Garber Attorney 
 McNees Wallace & Nurick LLC  
McNees Wallace & Nurick LLC  
 100 Pine St P.O. Box 1166 
100 PINE ST  
 Harrisburg PENNSYLVANIA 17101   
HARRISBURG PENNSYLVANIA 17101   
   FOR:  Industrial Energy Consumers of America 
  FOR:  American Forest & Paper Association 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Susan E Bruce  
William D. Booth  
 McNees Wallace & Nurick LLC  
Michael Best & Friedrich, LLP  
 100 Pine St P.O. Box 1166 
1000 Maine Ave SW Suite 400 
 Harrisburg PENNSYLVANIA 17101   
Washington, D.C. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20024   
   FOR:  Coalition of MISO Transmission Customers 
  FOR:  Southwest Power Pool Market Monitoring  
   Status:  PRIN 
Unit 
 MISO Legal  
Cortney Sanders  
 Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc.  
Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc.  
 720 City Center Drive  
720 City Center Dr  
 Carmel INDIANA 46082-4202   
Carmel INDIANA 46032   
   FOR:  Midcontinent Independent System Operator,  
  FOR:  Midcontinent Independent System Operator,  
 Inc. 
Inc. 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 MISO Agreements  
Stephen Rose  
 Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc.  
MINNESOTA PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION  
 720 CITY CENTER DR  
121 7TH PL E STE 350  
 CARMEL INDIANA 46032   
SAINT PAUL MINNESOTA 55101   
   FOR:  Midcontinent Independent System Operator,  
  FOR:  MINNESOTA PUBLIC UTILITIES  
 Inc. 
COMMISSION 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Lise B Trudeau Regional Energy Program Superv 
Karolin walker, ESQ Attorney 
 MINNESOTA PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION  
Missouri Public Service Commission  
 121 7TH PL E STE 350 MINNESOTA PUBLIC  
201 MADISON ST  
 UTILITIES COMMISSION 
JEFFERSON CITY MISSOURI 65101   
 SAINT PAUL MINNESOTA 55101   
  FOR:  Missouri Public Service Commission 
   FOR:  MINNESOTA PUBLIC UTILITIES  
  Status:  PRIN 
 COMMISSION 
   Status:  PRIN 

--- PAGE 31 ---
 
Page 5 of 18 
 
THE FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION SERVICE LIST 
 
Downloaded:  November 21, 2025 
 
FERC DOCKET NO. RM26-4 
 
Total number of addressees:  261 
 Jennifer Heintz  
Jennie Wells Paralegal 
 Missouri Public Service Commission  
Missouri Public Service Commission  
 200 Madison Street  
200 Madison Street  
 Jefferson City MISSOURI 65102   
Jefferson City MISSOURI 65101   
   FOR:  Missouri Public Service Commission 
  FOR:  Missouri Public Service Commission 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Jan Kay Davidson Utility Policy Analyst I 
susan doerhoff senior research analyst 
 Missouri Public Service Commission  
Missouri Public Service Commission  
 200 Madison St  
200 MADISON ST  
 Jefferson City MISSOURI 65101   
JEFFERSON CITY MISSOURI 65101   
   FOR:  Missouri Public Service Commission 
  FOR:  Missouri Public Service Commission 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Rodney  Massman  
Joseph Bowring  
 Missouri Public Service Commission  
Monitoring Analytics, LLC  
 200 Madison Street  
2621 Van Buren Avenue, Suite 160  
 Jefferson City MISSOURI 65101   
Norristown PENNSYLVANIA 19403   
   FOR:  Missouri Public Service Commission 
  FOR:  Monitoring Analytics, LLC 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Suzette N Krausen Executive Assistant 
Kurt Rempe  
 Monitoring Analytics, LLC  
National Grid Renewables Development, LLC  
 2621 Van Buren Ave Ste 160  
8400 NORMANDALE LAKE BLVD STE 1200  
 Norristown PENNSYLVANIA 19403   
BLOOMINGTON MINNESOTA 55437   
   FOR:  Monitoring Analytics, LLC 
  FOR:  GERONIMO POWER, LLC 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Alexander Cary  
Airi Kogishi  
 New Jersey Board of Public Utilities  
New Jersey Board of Public Utilities  
 P.O. Box 112  
44 S Clinton Avenue  
 TRENTON NEW JERSEY 08625   
Trenton NEW JERSEY 08625-0350   
   FOR:  New Jersey Board of Public Utilities 
  FOR:  New Jersey Board of Public Utilities 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Paul Youchak  
Amanda Lescano  
 New Jersey Board of Public Utilities  
New Jersey Board of Public Utilities  
 44 S. Clinton Avenue  
44 S Clinton Ave  
 TRENTON NEW JERSEY 08625   
Trenton NEW JERSEY 08609   
   FOR:  New Jersey Board of Public Utilities 
  FOR:  New Jersey Board of Public Utilities 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Ian Oxenham, ESQ  
Aditya Keskar  
 New Jersey Board of Public Utilities  
North Carolina Utilities Commission  
 44 S CLINTON AVE FL 10  
430 North Salisbury Street Dobbs Building, 5th  
 TRENTON NEW JERSEY 08609   
Floor 
   FOR:  New Jersey Board of Public Utilities 
Raleigh NORTH CAROLINA 27603-5918   
   Status:  PRIN 
  FOR:  North Carolina Utilities Commission 
 eric jung President/CEO 
Tricia DeBleeckere Executive Director 
 NORTHEASTERN REMC  
Organization of MISO States, Inc.  
 4901 e park 30 drive  
811 E. Washington, Suite 400  
 columbia city INDIANA 46725   
Madison WISCONSIN 53703   
   FOR:  NORTHEASTERN REMC 
  FOR:  Organization of MISO States, Inc. 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 

--- PAGE 32 ---
 
Page 6 of 18 
 
THE FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION SERVICE LIST 
 
Downloaded:  November 21, 2025 
 
FERC DOCKET NO. RM26-4 
 
Total number of addressees:  261 
 Stacie M Hebert Manager FERC/RTO Policy 
Chengxuan Bai CTO 
 Otter Tail Power Company  
PACES AI INC.  
 215 S CASCADE ST  
185 WYTHE AVE STE 9C  
 FERGUS FALLS MINNESOTA 56537   
Brooklyn NEW YORK 11249   
   FOR:  Otter Tail Power Company 
  FOR:  PACES AI INC. 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Denell Lewis  
Matthew Morais Senior Director, Federal Reg 
 Pennsylvania Office of Consumer Advocate  
PJM Interconnection, L.L.C.  
 555 WALNUT ST  
8400 Normandale Lake Boulevard Suite 1200 
 HARRISBURG PENNSYLVANIA 17101   
Bloomington MINNESOTA 55437   
   FOR:  Pennsylvania Office of Consumer Advocate 
  FOR:  GERONIMO POWER, LLC 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Tracy Chen Associate FERC Compliance Anal 
Robert E. Gardinor Paralegal 
 Portland General Electric  
PSEG Services Corporation  
 121 SW SALMON ST  
80 Park Plaza, T5  
 PORTLAND OREGON 97204   
Newark NEW JERSEY 07102   
   FOR:  Portland General Electric Company 
  FOR:  Public Service Electric and Gas Company 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Jodi  Moskowitz Gen. Reg. Counsel 
Robert E. Gardinor Paralegal 
 PSEG Services Corporation  
PSEG Services Corporation  
 80 Park Plz # T5G  
80 Park Plaza, T5  
 Newark NEW JERSEY 07102   
Newark NEW JERSEY 07102   
   FOR:  Public Service Electric and Gas Company 
  FOR:  PSEG Energy Resources & Trade LLC 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Jodi  Moskowitz Gen. Reg. Counsel 
Robert E. Gardinor Paralegal 
 PSEG Services Corporation  
PSEG Services Corporation  
 80 Park Plz # T5G  
80 Park Plaza, T5  
 Newark NEW JERSEY 07102   
Newark NEW JERSEY 07102   
   FOR:  PSEG Energy Resources & Trade LLC 
  FOR:  PSEG Companies 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Robert E. Gardinor Paralegal 
Jodi  Moskowitz Gen. Reg. Counsel 
 PSEG Services Corporation  
PSEG Services Corporation  
 80 Park Plaza, T5  
80 Park Plz # T5G  
 Newark NEW JERSEY 07102   
Newark NEW JERSEY 07102   
   FOR:  PSEG  Power LLC 
  FOR:  PSEG  Power LLC 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Jodi  Moskowitz Gen. Reg. Counsel 
Cara Coburn Faris, ESQ Chief Legal Counsel 
 PSEG Services Corporation  
Public Service Commission of Wisconsin  
 80 Park Plz # T5G  
4822 Madison Yards Way 6th Floor 
 Newark NEW JERSEY 07102   
Madison WISCONSIN 53705   
   FOR:  PSEG Companies 
  FOR:  Public Service Commission of Wisconsin 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Laura M Maestas  
Stacey Goodwin Assoc General Counsel 
 Public Service Company of New Mexico  
Public Service Company of New Mexico  
 414 SILVER AVE SW  
414 SILVER AVE SW  
 ALBUQUERQUE NEW MEXICO 87102   
ALBUQUERQUE NEW MEXICO 87102   
   FOR:  Public Service Company of New Mexico 
  FOR:  Public Service Company of New Mexico 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 

--- PAGE 33 ---
 
Page 7 of 18 
 
THE FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION SERVICE LIST 
 
Downloaded:  November 21, 2025 
 
FERC DOCKET NO. RM26-4 
 
Total number of addressees:  261 
 Kent A Chandler Executive Staff Advisor 
Charles A. Beauregard Law Clerk 
 R Street Institute  
Sidley Austin LLP  
 211 Sower Blvd.  
1501 K St NW  
 Frankfort KENTUCKY 40601   
Washington DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20005   
   FOR:  R Street Institute 
  FOR:  Energy Trading Institute 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Eugene Bradford Vice President, Rates and Ener 
Jodi Woods Director, Market Monitoring Un 
 SOUTHERN MARYLAND ELECTRIC COOP INC  
Southwest Power Pool Inc.  
 15035 Burnt Store Rd.  
201 WORTHEN DR  
 Hughesville MARYLAND 20637   
LITTLE ROCK ARKANSAS 72223   
   FOR:  Southern Maryland Electric Cooperative, Inc. 
  FOR:  Southwest Power Pool Market Monitoring  
   Status:  PRIN 
Unit 
 Cassie Butler Southwest Power Pool, Inc. 
Raleigh Mohr Manager 
 Southwest Power Pool Inc.  
Southwest Power Pool Market Monitoring Unit  
 201 WORTHEN DR  
201 Worthen Dr  
 LITTLE ROCK ARKANSAS 72223   
Little Rock ARKANSAS 72223   
   FOR:  Southwest Power Pool, Inc. 
  FOR:  Southwest Power Pool Market Monitoring  
   Status:  PRIN 
Unit 
 Tessie Kentner Director and Associate 
Victor F Schock  
 Southwest Power Pool, Inc.  
State of North Dakota  
 General Counsel 201 Worthen Drive 
600 E Boulevard Ave Dept 408 
 LITTLE ROCK ARKANSAS 72223   
Bismarck NORTH DAKOTA 58505   
   FOR:  Southwest Power Pool, Inc. 
  FOR:  North Dakota Public Service Commission 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 John E. McCaffrey Partner 
Jonathan D. Schneider, ESQ  
 Stinson LLP  
Stinson LLP  
 1775 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Suite 800 
1775 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Suite 800 
 WASHINGTON DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20006   
Washington DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20006   
   FOR:  Large Public Power Council 
  FOR:  Large Public Power Council 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Ala Tamimi Senior VP and Chief Operating 
Christine Aarnes  
 SUNFLOWER ELECTRIC COOP INC (KS)  
Sunflower Electric Power Corp  
 425 S 119th St. W  
425 S 119th ST W  
 WICHITA KANSAS 67235   
Wichita KANSAS 67235   
   FOR:  Sunflower Electric Power Corporation 
  FOR:  Sunflower Electric Power Corporation 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Jenna  Cliatt  
Sylvia K Skinner Paralegal 
 Thompson Coburn LLP  
Tucson Electric Power Company  
 1909 K Street NW Suite 600 
88 E. Broadway  
 Washington DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20006   
Tucson ARIZONA 85701   
   FOR:  Sunflower Electric Power Corporation 
  FOR:  UNS Electric, Inc. 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Sylvia K Skinner Paralegal 
Andrew Weinstein Director of ISO-NE Markets 
 Tucson Electric Power Company  
Vistra Corp.  
 88 E. Broadway  
325 7th Street, NW  
 Tucson ARIZONA 85701   
WASHINGTON DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20004   
   FOR:  Tucson Electric Power Company 
  FOR:  Vistra Corp. 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 

--- PAGE 34 ---
 
Page 8 of 18 
 
THE FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION SERVICE LIST 
 
Downloaded:  November 21, 2025 
 
FERC DOCKET NO. RM26-4 
 
Total number of addressees:  261 
 Sarah Greenberg  
Bryan Shpall Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosa 
 Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati  
Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati  
 1700 K ST NW FL 5  
1700 K ST NW FL 5  
 WASHINGTON DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20006   
WASHINGTON DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20006   
   FOR:  Vistra Corp. 
  FOR:  Vistra Corp. 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Kelly Cook Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosa 
Pauline Foley Contractor 
 Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati  
WIRES  
 One Market Plaza, Spear Tower #3300  
529 14TH ST NW STE 1280  
 San Francisco CALIFORNIA 94118   
WASHINGTON DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20045   
   FOR:  Vistra Corp. 
  FOR:  WIRES 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Carrie Bivens  
William F. Fields Deputy People's Counsel 
 201 Worthen Drive  
6 SAINT PAUL ST STE 2102  
 Little Rock ARKANSAS 72223   
BALTIMORE MARYLAND 21202   
   FOR:  Southwest Power Pool Market Monitoring  
  FOR:  Maryland Office of People's Counsel 
 Unit 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Julie A Horgan eTariff Coordinator 
Dana Sanson  
 One Sullivan Road  
200 Madison Street  
 Holyoke MASSACHUSETTS 01040   
Jefferson City MISSOURI 65101   
   FOR:  ISO New England Inc. 
  FOR:  Missouri Public Service Commission 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Valerie Groose  
Morris Schreim  
 200 MADISON ST  
6 St. Paul Street  
 JEFFERSON CITY MISSOURI 65101   
Baltimore MARYLAND 21202   
   FOR:  Missouri Public Service Commission 
  FOR:  Maryland Public Service Commission 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Edwin Cambero Compliance officer 
Sophie MacDonald  
 2925 RICHMOND AVE  
1701 C ST SE  
 HOUSTON TEXAS 77098   
WASHINGTON DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20003   
   FOR:  VC Renewables LLC 
  FOR:  Maryland Public Service Commission 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Laura Chappelle  
Olivia Moe  
 6688 FOREST BEACH DR  
 
 HOLLAND MICHIGAN 49423   
  FOR:  MINNESOTA PUBLIC UTILITIES  
   FOR:  PJM Power Providers Group 
COMMISSION 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Diane L Slifer  
James Huang Director, Wholesale Markets Po 
 101 LINDENWOOD DR STE 225  
1113 Vine Street Suite 101 
 MALVERN PENNSYLVANIA 19355   
Houston TEXAS 77002   
   FOR:  PJM Power Providers Group 
  FOR:  Enchanted Rock, LLC 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 

--- PAGE 35 ---
 
Page 9 of 18 
 
THE FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION SERVICE LIST 
 
Downloaded:  November 21, 2025 
 
FERC DOCKET NO. RM26-4 
 
Total number of addressees:  261 
 Ray Bergmeier Manager of Transmission Policy 
Edwin Cambero Compliance officer 
 425 S 119th St. W  
2925 RICHMOND AVE  
 Wichita KANSAS 67235   
HOUSTON TEXAS 77098   
   FOR:  Sunflower Electric Power Corporation 
  FOR:  Vitol Inc. 
   Status:  PRIN 
  Status:  PRIN 
 Noha Sidhom Executive Director 
Stephen Hug  
 64 Bryant Street, N.W.  
Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP  
 Washington DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20001   
2001 K Street, N.W.  
   FOR:  Energy Trading Institute 
Washington DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20006   
   Status:  PRIN 
  FOR:  GERONIMO POWER, LLC 
 
  Status:  REPS 
 Jay Sher  
Gabriel Tabak Counsel 
 ALLIANT ENERGY  
American Clean Power Association  
 801 PENNSYLVANIA AVE NW STE 330  
1501 M St NW  
 WASHINGTON DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20004   
Washington DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20005   
   FOR:  Alliant Energy Corporate Services, Inc. 
  FOR:  American Clean Power Association 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Grace Soderberg Senior Counsel 
Erin Kurilla Executive Vice President 
 AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE  
American Public Gas Association  
 200 MASSACHUSETTS AVE NW  
201 Massachusetts Ave NE Suite C-4 
 WASHINGTON DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20001   
Washington DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20002   
   FOR:  AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE 
  FOR:  American Public Gas Association 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Mike Gahimer  
Thomas Van Flein General Counsel 
 Arevon Energy, Inc.  
Arizona Corporation Commission  
 14427 Salem Dr E  
1200 W. Washington St.  
 Carmel INDIANA 46033   
Phoenix ARIZONA 85007   
   FOR:  Arevon Energy, Inc. 
  FOR:  Arizona Corporation Commission 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Bridgette Frazier  
Stephanie Neitzel  
 Arkansas Public Service Commission  
ATC 1, LLC  
 1000 CENTER ST  
W234 N2000 Ridgeview Pkwy Ct  
 LITTLE ROCK ARKANSAS 72201   
Waukesha WISCONSIN 53188   
   FOR:  Arkansas Public Service Commission 
  FOR:  American Transmission Company LLC 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Dominic Faria Senior Policy Coordinator 
Lisa Hairston FERC Compliance Manager 
 Ava Community Energy  
Avista Corporation  
 1999 HARRISON ST STE 2300  
1411 E Mission Ave MSC-4 
 OAKLAND CALIFORNIA 94612   
Spokane WASHINGTON 99252   
   FOR:  Ava Community Energy 
  FOR:  Avista Corporation 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 C. Anthony Braun  
C. Anthony Braun  
 Braun Blaising & Wynne, P.C.  
Braun Blaising & Wynne, P.C.  
 555 Capitol Mall Suite 570 
555 Capitol Mall Suite 570 
 Sacramento CALIFORNIA 95814   
Sacramento CALIFORNIA 95814   
   FOR:  California Municipal Utilities Association 
  FOR:  Balancing Authority of Northern California 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 

--- PAGE 36 ---
 
Page 10 of 18 
 
THE FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION SERVICE LIST 
 
Downloaded:  November 21, 2025 
 
FERC DOCKET NO. RM26-4 
 
Total number of addressees:  261 
 Nathalie Godard Law Clerk 
Matt Barnes  
 Brookfield Energy Marketing LP  
Calibrant Energy  
 41 Victoria Street  
16 Gavin Cir  
 Gatineau QUEBEC J8X2A1   
Andover MASSACHUSETTS 01810   
   FOR:  Brookfield Renewable Trading and  
  FOR:  Calibrant Energy 
 Marketing LP 
  Status:  REPS 
   Status:  REPS 
 Howard Crystal Senior Attorney 
Michael Pattwell Attorney 
 Center for Biological Diversity  
Clark Hill PLC  
 1411 K ST NW STE 1300  
212 East Cesar E. Chavez Avenue  
 WASHINGTON DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20005   
Lansing MICHIGAN 48906   
   FOR:  Center for Biological Diversity 
  FOR:  Association of Businesses Advocating Tariff  
   Status:  REPS 
Equity 
 
  Status:  REPS 
 Benjamin Holwerda Senior Attorney 
Stephen Campbell  
 Clark Hill PLC  
Clark Hill PLC  
 215 S WASHINGTON SQ STE 200  
500 WOODWARD AVE STE 3500  
 LANSING MICHIGAN 48933   
DETROIT MICHIGAN 48226   
   FOR:  Association of Businesses Advocating Tariff  
  FOR:  Association of Businesses Advocating Tariff  
 Equity 
Equity 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Gretchen Schott Assistant General Counsel, Reg 
Jill Kelone  
 Clearway Energy Group LLC  
Cleco Corporation  
 1200 SMITH ST STE 600  
2030 DONAHUE FERRY RD  
 HOUSTON TEXAS 77002   
PINEVILLE LOUISIANA 71360   
   FOR:  Clearway Energy Group LLC 
  FOR:  Cleco Power LLC 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Sebrina Greene Associate General Counsel 
Sebrina Greene Associate General Counsel 
 Consolidated  Edison Company of New York, Inc.  
Consolidated  Edison Company of New York, Inc.  
 4 Irving Place 18th Floor 
4 Irving Place 18th Floor 
 New York NEW YORK 10003   
New York NEW YORK 10003   
   FOR:  Consolidated Edison Company of New  
  FOR:  Rockland Electric Company 
 York, Inc. and Orange and Rockland Utilities, Inc. 
  Status:  REPS 
   Status:  REPS 
 Amanda De Vito  
Aaron Breidenbaugh CPower Energy Management 
 Couch White, LLP  
CPower, Inc.  
 540 Broadway, Suite 7  
64 Westview Rd  
 Albany NEW YORK 12207   
Voorheesville NEW YORK 12186   
   FOR:  New York State Reliability Council, L.L.C. 
  FOR:  Enerwise Global Technologies, LLC dba  
   Status:  REPS 
CPower 
 
  Status:  REPS 
 Andrew Grinalds Critical Loop, COO 
Nathan Dunkley Counsel 
 Critical Loop  
DESRI Holdings, L.P.  
 4150 E DONALD DOUGLAS DR  
4949 S SYRACUSE ST STE 570  
 LONG BEACH CALIFORNIA 90808   
DENVER COLORADO 80237   
   FOR:  Critical Loop 
  FOR:  DESRI Holdings, L.P. 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 

--- PAGE 37 ---
 
Page 11 of 18 
 
THE FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION SERVICE LIST 
 
Downloaded:  November 21, 2025 
 
FERC DOCKET NO. RM26-4 
 
Total number of addressees:  261 
 Sonya Murphy  
Michael Brechlin  
 Digital Power Network  
Duquesne Light Company  
 1667 K ST NW  
411 7th Ave  
 WASHINGTON DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20006   
Pittsburgh PENNSYLVANIA 15219   
   FOR:  Digital Power Network 
  FOR:  Duquesne Light Company 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Nancy Bagot  
Mona Tierney-Lloyd Head, Regulatory & Institution 
 Electric Power Supply Association  
Enel North America, Inc.  
 1401 NEW YORK AVE NW STE 950  
2071 ALTAIR LN  
 WASHINGTON DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20005   
RENO NEVADA 89521   
   FOR:  Electric Power Supply Association 
  FOR:  Enel North America, Inc. 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Sarah Bresolin Silver Director Government and  
Nicholas Wallace  
 Regula 
ENVIRONMENTAL LAW & POLICY CENTER  
 ENGIE North America Inc.  
35 E WACKER DR STE 1600  
 1360 Post Oak Blvd  
CHICAGO ILLINOIS 60601   
 Houston TEXAS 77056   
  FOR:  ENVIRONMENTAL LAW & POLICY CENTER 
   FOR:  ENGIE North America Inc. 
  Status:  REPS 
   Status:  REPS 
 Katherine Duckworth  
Morgan Parke Associate General Counsel 
 ENVIRONMENTAL LAW & POLICY CENTER  
FirstEnergy  
 35 E WACKER DR STE 1600  
341 White Pond Dr.  
 CHICAGO ILLINOIS 60601   
Akron OHIO 44320   
   FOR:  ENVIRONMENTAL LAW & POLICY CENTER 
  FOR:  American Transmission Systems,  
   Status:  REPS 
Incorporated 
 
  Status:  REPS 
 Morgan Parke Associate General Counsel 
Morgan Parke Associate General Counsel 
 FirstEnergy  
FirstEnergy  
 341 White Pond Dr.  
341 White Pond Dr.  
 Akron OHIO 44320   
Akron OHIO 44320   
   FOR:  Trans-Allegheny Interstate Line Company 
  FOR:  The Potomac Edison Company 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Morgan Parke Associate General Counsel 
Morgan Parke Associate General Counsel 
 FirstEnergy  
FirstEnergy  
 341 White Pond Dr.  
341 White Pond Dr.  
 Akron OHIO 44320   
Akron OHIO 44320   
   FOR:  Monongahela Power Company 
  FOR:  Mid-Atlantic Interstate Transmission LLC 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Morgan Parke Associate General Counsel 
Morgan Parke Associate General Counsel 
 FirstEnergy  
FirstEnergy  
 341 White Pond Dr.  
341 White Pond Dr.  
 Akron OHIO 44320   
Akron OHIO 44320   
   FOR:  Keystone Appalachian Transmission  
  FOR:  Jersey Central Power & Light Company 
 Company 
  Status:  REPS 
   Status:  REPS 

--- PAGE 38 ---
 
Page 12 of 18 
 
THE FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION SERVICE LIST 
 
Downloaded:  November 21, 2025 
 
FERC DOCKET NO. RM26-4 
 
Total number of addressees:  261 
 Morgan Parke Associate General Counsel 
Amanda Parker Attorney 
 FirstEnergy  
FirstEnergy Service Company  
 341 White Pond Dr.  
76 South Main Street  
 Akron OHIO 44320   
Akron OHIO 44308   
   FOR:  FirstEnergy Service Company 
  FOR:  American Transmission Systems,  
   Status:  REPS 
Incorporated 
 
  Status:  REPS 
 Amanda Parker Attorney 
Amanda Parker Attorney 
 FirstEnergy Service Company  
FirstEnergy Service Company  
 76 South Main Street  
76 South Main Street  
 Akron OHIO 44308   
Akron OHIO 44308   
   FOR:  FirstEnergy Service Company 
  FOR:  Jersey Central Power & Light Company 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Amanda Parker Attorney 
Amanda Parker Attorney 
 FirstEnergy Service Company  
FirstEnergy Service Company  
 76 South Main Street  
76 South Main Street  
 Akron OHIO 44308   
Akron OHIO 44308   
   FOR:  Keystone Appalachian Transmission  
  FOR:  Mid-Atlantic Interstate Transmission LLC 
 Company 
  Status:  REPS 
   Status:  REPS 
 Amanda Parker Attorney 
Amanda Parker Attorney 
 FirstEnergy Service Company  
FirstEnergy Service Company  
 76 South Main Street  
76 South Main Street  
 Akron OHIO 44308   
Akron OHIO 44308   
   FOR:  Monongahela Power Company 
  FOR:  The Potomac Edison Company 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Amanda Parker Attorney 
Chris Collado  
 FirstEnergy Service Company  
Georgia Public Service Commission  
 76 South Main Street  
244 WASHINGTON ST SW  
 Akron OHIO 44308   
ATLANTA GEORGIA 30334   
   FOR:  Trans-Allegheny Interstate Line Company 
  FOR:  Georgia Public Service Commission 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Christine Ericson Special Assistant Attorney Gen 
J. Arnold Quinn  
 Illinois Commerce Commission  
INDIVIDUAL  
 160 N. LaSalle St. Suite C-800 
325 7th Street, N.W Suite 520 
 Chicago ILLINOIS 60601   
Washington DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20004   
   FOR:  Illinois Commerce Commission 
  FOR:  Vistra Corp. 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Margoth Caley Senior Regulatory Counsel 
Marjorie Philips VP, Wholesale Market Policy 
 ISO New England Inc.  
LS Power Development, LLC  
 1 SULLIVAN RD  
250 W 55TH ST FL 31  
 HOLYOKE MASSACHUSETTS 01040   
NEW YORK NEW YORK 10019   
   FOR:  ISO New England Inc. 
  FOR:  LS Power Development, LLC 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 

--- PAGE 39 ---
 
Page 13 of 18 
 
THE FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION SERVICE LIST 
 
Downloaded:  November 21, 2025 
 
FERC DOCKET NO. RM26-4 
 
Total number of addressees:  261 
 Andrew Landry Deputy Public Advocate 
Brian Kauffman Director, Wholesale Market Dev 
 Maine Office of the Public Advocate  
Mainspring Energy  
 103 Water St  
3601 HAVEN AVE  
 Hallowell MAINE 04347   
MENLO PARK CALIFORNIA 94025   
   FOR:  Maine Office of the Public Advocate 
  FOR:  Mainspring Energy 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Philip Sussler Senior Assistant People's Coun 
Joey Chen Associate General Counsel 
 Maryland Office of People's Counsel  
Maryland Public Service Commission  
 6 SAINT PAUL ST STE 2102  
6 SAINT PAUL ST FL 16 WILLIAM DONALD  
 BALTIMORE MARYLAND 21202   
SCHAEFER TOWER 
   FOR:  Maryland Office of People's Counsel 
BALTIMORE MARYLAND 21202   
   Status:  REPS 
  FOR:  Maryland Public Service Commission 
 
  Status:  REPS 
 Jacquelyn Bihrle Assistant Attorney General 
Greggory Wade  
 Massachusetts Attorney General  
Massachusetts Department of Public Utilities  
 Office of Ratepayer Advocacy One Ashburton Place 
Massachusetts Department of Public Utilities 1  
 Boston MASSACHUSETTS 02108-1598   
South Station 
   FOR:  Massachusetts Office of the Attorney General 
boston MASSACHUSETTS 02110   
   Status:  REPS 
  FOR:  Massachusetts Department of Public  
 
Utilities 
 Kenneth Stark  
Kenneth Stark  
 McNees Wallace & Nurick LLC  
McNees Wallace & Nurick LLC  
 100 PINE ST  
100 PINE ST  
 HARRISBURG PENNSYLVANIA 17101   
HARRISBURG PENNSYLVANIA 17101   
   FOR:  Industrial Energy Consumers of America 
  FOR:  Coalition of MISO Transmission Customers 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Susan Bruce  
Kenneth Stark  
 McNees Wallace & Nurick LLC  
McNees Wallace & Nurick LLC  
 100 Pine St P.O. Box 1166 
100 PINE ST  
 Harrisburg PENNSYLVANIA 17101   
HARRISBURG PENNSYLVANIA 17101   
   FOR:  PJM Industrial Customer Coalition 
  FOR:  American Forest & Paper Association 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Orrie Walsvik Associate Attorney 
Katherine Hinderlie Office of the Minnesota Attorn 
 Michael Best & Friedrich LLP  
Minnesota Attorney General's Office  
 1 S PINCKNEY ST STE 700  
445 MINNESOTA ST STE 600  
 MADISON WISCONSIN 53703   
SAINT PAUL MINNESOTA 55101   
   FOR:  Southwest Power Pool Market Monitoring  
  FOR:  Minnesota Attorney General's Office 
 Unit 
  Status:  REPS 
 Steven Shparber  
Omar Bustami  
 Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky and Popeo, P.C.  
Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky and Popeo, P.C.  
 555 12TH ST NW STE 1100  
3580 Carmel Mountain Road Suite 300 
 WASHINGTON DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20004   
San Diego CALIFORNIA 92130   
   FOR:  Enchanted Rock, LLC 
  FOR:  Enchanted Rock, LLC 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 

--- PAGE 40 ---
 
Page 14 of 18 
 
THE FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION SERVICE LIST 
 
Downloaded:  November 21, 2025 
 
FERC DOCKET NO. RM26-4 
 
Total number of addressees:  261 
 Matthew Loftus Senior Corporate Counsel 
John Borgmeyer Litigation Attorney 
 MISO  
Missouri Public Service Commission  
 2985 Ames Crossing Rd  
PO BOX 360  
 Eagan MINNESOTA 55121   
JEFFERSON CITY MISSOURI 65102   
   FOR:  Midcontinent Independent System Operator,  
  FOR:  Missouri Public Service Commission 
 Inc. 
  Status:  REPS 
   Status:  REPS 
 Jeffrey Mayes General Counsel 
Bruce Anderson Senior VP and General Counsel 
 Monitoring Analytics, LLC  
New England Power Generators Association Inc.  
 2621 Van Buren Avenue, Suite 160 Valley Forge  
110 Turnpike Road Suite 212 
 Corporate Center 
Westborough MASSACHUSETTS 01581   
 Eagleville PENNSYLVANIA 19403   
  FOR:  New England Power Generators  
   FOR:  Monitoring Analytics, LLC 
Association Inc. 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Matthew Fossum  
Mahala Lahvis  
 New Hampshire Office of the Consumer Advocate  
New Jersey Board of Public Utilities  
 21 S FRUIT ST STE 18  
44 S Clinton Ave  
 CONCORD NEW HAMPSHIRE 03301   
Trenton NEW JERSEY 08609   
   FOR:  New Hampshire Office of the Consumer  
  FOR:  New Jersey Board of Public Utilities 
 Advocate 
  Status:  REPS 
   Status:  REPS 
 Yanneka King Mazzara  
Christopher Martens General Counsel 
 North Carolina Utilities Commission  
North Dakota Public Service Commission  
 4325 MAIL SERVICE CTR NORTH CAROLINA  
600 E BOULEVARD AVE DEPT 408  
 UTILITIES COMMISSION 
BISMARCK NORTH DAKOTA 58505   
 RALEIGH NORTH CAROLINA 27699   
  FOR:  North Dakota Public Service Commission 
   FOR:  North Carolina Utilities Commission 
  Status:  REPS 
   Status:  REPS 
 Alexandra Jones VP & Sr. Counsel of Energy and 
Travis Kavulla Vice President, Regulatory Aff 
 NORTHEASTERN REMC  
NRG Energy, Inc.  
 6908 GEM CREEK LN  
325 7th St. N.W 5th Floor 
 WHITESTOWN INDIANA 46075   
Washington DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20004   
   FOR:  NORTHEASTERN REMC 
  FOR:  NRG Energy, Inc. 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Brad Pope Direct. of Legal and Reg. Affa 
Gregory Carmean Executive Director 
 Organization of MISO States, Inc.  
Organization of PJM States, Inc.  
 811 E. Washington Avenue Suite 400 
700 Barksdale Road Suite 1 
 Madison WISCONSIN 53703   
Newark DELAWARE 19711   
   FOR:  Organization of MISO States, Inc. 
  FOR:  Organization of PJM States, Inc. 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 James McWalter CEO 
Jeremy Fetty  
 PACES AI INC.  
Parr Richey Obremskey & Morton  
 285 N 6TH ST FL 2  
6702 Intech Blvd.  
 BROOKLYN NEW YORK 11211   
Indianapolis INDIANA 46278   
   FOR:  PACES AI INC. 
  FOR:  Wabash Valley Power Association, Inc. 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 

--- PAGE 41 ---
 
Page 15 of 18 
 
THE FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION SERVICE LIST 
 
Downloaded:  November 21, 2025 
 
FERC DOCKET NO. RM26-4 
 
Total number of addressees:  261 
 Cameron Yourkowski Dir., Regulatory & Market Affa 
Meghan Gruebner Senior Counsel 
 Pattern Energy Group Inc.  
Pattern Energy Group LP  
 1088 Sansome Street  
1088 Sansome St.  
 SAN FRANCISCO CALIFORNIA 94111   
San Francisco CALIFORNIA 94111   
   FOR:  Pattern Energy Group Inc. 
  FOR:  Pattern Energy Group Inc. 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Jacob Guthrie Assistant Consumer Advocate 
Melanie El Atieh Deputy Consumer Advocate 
 Pennsylvania Office of Consumer Advocate  
Pennsylvania Office of Consumer Advocate  
 555 WALNUT ST FL 5  
555 WALNUT ST 5TH FLOOR, FORUM PLACE 
 HARRISBURG PENNSYLVANIA 17101   
HARRISBURG PENNSYLVANIA 17101   
   FOR:  Pennsylvania Office of Consumer Advocate 
  FOR:  Pennsylvania Office of Consumer Advocate 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Josiah Harmar  
Patrick Cicero Of Counsel 
 Pennsylvania Office of Consumer Advocate  
Pennsylvania Utility Law Project  
 555 WALNUT ST  
118 LOCUST ST PENNSYLVANIA UTILITY LAW  
 HARRISBURG PENNSYLVANIA 17101   
PROJECT 
   FOR:  Pennsylvania Office of Consumer Advocate 
HARRISBURG PENNSYLVANIA 17101   
   Status:  REPS 
  FOR:  Coalition for Affordable Utility Services and  
 
Energy Efficiency in Pennsylvania (CAUSE-PA) 
 
  Status:  REPS 
 Mark Stanisz Assistant General Counsel 
Pamela Sporborg Manager, Market Performance an 
 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C.  
Portland General Electric Company  
 2750 Monroe Blvd.  
121 SW SALMON ST  
 Audubon PENNSYLVANIA 19403   
PORTLAND OREGON 97204   
   FOR:  PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. 
  FOR:  Portland General Electric Company 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Lisa Luftig  
Tyson Slocum Energy Program Director 
 Portland General Electric Company  
PUBLIC CITIZEN, INC  
 121 SW SALMON ST # 1WTC1301  
215 PENNSYLVANIA AVE SE PUBLIC CITIZEN, INC. 
 PORTLAND OREGON 97204   
WASHINGTON DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20003   
   FOR:  Portland General Electric Company 
  FOR:  PUBLIC CITIZEN, INC 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Adam Alvarez Director, FERC Compliance 
Viet Ngo Associate Counsel, Federal Reg 
 Public Service Company of New Mexico  
Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated  
 Main Offices  
601 New Jersey Ave, NW Suite 310 
 Albuquerque NEW MEXICO 87158-1105   
WASHINGTON DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20001   
   FOR:  Public Service Company of New Mexico 
  FOR:  Public Service Electric and Gas Company 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Viet Ngo Associate Counsel, Federal Reg 
Viet Ngo Associate Counsel, Federal Reg 
 Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated  
Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated  
 601 New Jersey Ave, NW Suite 310 
601 New Jersey Ave, NW Suite 310 
 WASHINGTON DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20001   
WASHINGTON DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20001   
   FOR:  PSEG Energy Resources & Trade LLC 
  FOR:  PSEG Companies 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 

--- PAGE 42 ---
 
Page 16 of 18 
 
THE FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION SERVICE LIST 
 
Downloaded:  November 21, 2025 
 
FERC DOCKET NO. RM26-4 
 
Total number of addressees:  261 
 Viet Ngo Associate Counsel, Federal Reg 
Sasha Bergman  
 Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated  
Public Utilities Commission of Minnesota  
 601 New Jersey Ave, NW Suite 310 
121 7TH PL E STE 350  
 WASHINGTON DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20001   
SAINT PAUL MINNESOTA 55101   
   FOR:  PSEG  Power LLC 
  FOR:  MINNESOTA PUBLIC UTILITIES  
   Status:  REPS 
COMMISSION 
 
  Status:  REPS 
 Devin Hartman  
Noah Goldmann  
 R Street Institute  
Rewiring America  
 1411 K Street NW #900 
6218 Georgia Avenue NW Suite #1 
 Washington DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20005   
Washington DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20011   
   FOR:  R Street Institute 
  FOR:  Rewiring America 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Nathan Lobel  
Alysha Gilbert Attorney 
 Roselle LLP  
Salt River Project Agricultural Improvement and  
 1833 LAMONT ST NW APT 2  
Power District  
 WASHINGTON DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20010   
SRP - Legal Services 1500 N Mill Avenue MS  
   FOR:  Verrus LLC 
PAB381 
   Status:  REPS 
Tempe ARIZONA 85288   
 
  FOR:  Salt River Project Agricultural Improvement  
 
and Power District 
 
  Status:  REPS 
 Bruce Grabow  
Casey Khan Counsel 
 Sheppard Mullin Richter & Hampton LLP  
Sidley Austin LLP  
 2099 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Suite 100 
1000 Louisiana Street Suite 5900 
 Washington DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20006-6801   
Houston TEXAS 77002   
   FOR:  Longroad Energy Holdings, LLC 
  FOR:  Energy Trading Institute 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Terence Healey  
Gregory Wannier Senior Attorney 
 Sidley Austin LLP  
Sierra Club  
 60 State Street 36th Floor 
Environmental Law Program 2101 Webster Street  
 Boston DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 02109   
Suite 1300 
   FOR:  Energy Trading Institute 
Oakland CALIFORNIA 94612   
   Status:  REPS 
  FOR:  Sierra Club 
 
  Status:  REPS 
 Justin Vickers Senior Attorney 
Paul Spies SMA America, LLC 
 Sierra Club  
SMA Solar Technology  
 Environmental Law Program 1229 W. Glenlake Ave. 
3925 Atherton Rd  
 Chicago ILLINOIS 60660   
Rocklin CALIFORNIA 95765   
   FOR:  Sierra Club 
  FOR:  SMA Solar Technology 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Greg Giunta  
Melissa Alfano Manager of Regulatory Affairs 
 Solar Energy Industries Association  
Solar Energy Industries Association  
 1425 K ST NW  
1425 K Street, N.W., Suite 1000  
 WASHINGTON DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20005   
Washington DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20005   
   FOR:  Solar Energy Industries Association 
  FOR:  Solar Energy Industries Association 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 

--- PAGE 43 ---
 
Page 17 of 18 
 
THE FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION SERVICE LIST 
 
Downloaded:  November 21, 2025 
 
FERC DOCKET NO. RM26-4 
 
Total number of addressees:  261 
 Kristen Edwards Commission Counsel 
Damon Krieger VP, Legal Affairs, Deputy Gen 
 South Dakota Public Utilities Commission  
Southern Maryland Electric Cooperative, Inc.  
 500 E CAPITOL AVE  
15035 Burnt Store Road P.O. Box 1937 
 PIERRE SOUTH DAKOTA 57501   
Hughesville MARYLAND 20637-1937   
   FOR:  South Dakota Public Utilities Commission 
  FOR:  Southern Maryland Electric Cooperative, Inc. 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Meredith Powell  
Jordan Mitchell Deputy Attorney General 
 Southwest Power Pool, Inc.  
State of New Jersey, Law & Public Safety, Division  
 201 WORTHEN DR  
of Law  
 LITTLE ROCK ARKANSAS 72223   
PO BOX 112  
   FOR:  Southwest Power Pool, Inc. 
TRENTON NEW JERSEY 08625   
   Status:  REPS 
  FOR:  New Jersey Board of Public Utilities 
 
  Status:  REPS 
 Elizabeth Van Winkle  
Steven Chaplar Deputy Attorney General 
 State of New Jersey, Law & Public Safety, Division  
State of New Jersey, Law & Public Safety, Division  
 of Law  
of Law  
 25 MARKET ST PO BOX 112 
PO BOX 112 R.J. HUGHES JUSTICE COMPLEX 
 TRENTON NEW JERSEY 08611   
TRENTON NEW JERSEY 08625   
   FOR:  New Jersey Board of Public Utilities 
  FOR:  New Jersey Board of Public Utilities 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Mary Jaworowski  
Peter Zullo  
 Stinson LLP  
Terraflux  
 1775 PENNSYLVANIA AVE NW 1775  
PO Box 188086  
 PENNSYLVANIA AVE 
Sacramento CALIFORNIA 95818   
 WASHINGTON DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20006   
  FOR:  Terraflux 
   FOR:  Large Public Power Council 
  Status:  REPS 
   Status:  REPS 
 Adrienne Clair  
Amanda Frazier  
 Thompson Coburn LLP  
Treaty Oak Clean Energy, LLC  
 1909 K Street NW Suite 600 
2901 VIA FORTUNA STE 650  
 Washington DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20006   
AUSTIN TEXAS 78746   
   FOR:  Sunflower Electric Power Corporation 
  FOR:  Treaty Oak Clean Energy, LLC 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Sarah Meadows Senior Counsel 
Sarah Meadows Senior Counsel 
 Tucson Electric Power (TEP)  
Tucson Electric Power (TEP)  
 88 E BROADWAY BLVD TUCSON ELECTRIC  
88 E BROADWAY BLVD TUCSON ELECTRIC  
 POWER 
POWER 
 TUCSON ARIZONA 85701   
TUCSON ARIZONA 85701   
   FOR:  Tucson Electric Power Company 
  FOR:  UNS Electric, Inc. 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Frederick Ochsenhirt Legal Advisor to the  
Jason Barker VP, Regulatory Affairs 
 Commissio 
Vitol Inc.  
 Virginia State Corporation Commission  
931 Metfield Rd  
 1300 E MAIN ST  
Towson MARYLAND 21286   
 RICHMOND VIRGINIA 23219   
  FOR:  VC Renewables LLC 
   FOR:  Virginia State Corporation Commission 
  Status:  REPS 

--- PAGE 44 ---
 
Page 18 of 18 
 
THE FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION SERVICE LIST 
 
Downloaded:  November 21, 2025 
 
FERC DOCKET NO. RM26-4 
 
Total number of addressees:  261 
 Seth Cochran Head of Strategic Market Polic 
Kimaya Abreu Voltus 
 Vitol Inc.  
Voltus, Inc.  
 2925 RICHMOND AVE  
2443 Fillmore Street #380-3427 
 HOUSTON TEXAS 77098   
San Francisco CALIFORNIA 94115   
   FOR:  Vitol Inc. 
  FOR:  Voltus, Inc. 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Nicholas Gladd  
Larry Gasteiger Executive Director 
 Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, P.C.  
529 14TH ST NW STE 1280  
 201 Washington St. Suite 2000 
WASHINGTON DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20045   
 Boston MASSACHUSETTS 02108   
  FOR:  WIRES 
   FOR:  Vistra Corp. 
  Status:  REPS 
   Status:  REPS 
 Glen Thomas  
Michael Garcia Assistant General Counsel 
 101 Lindenwood Drive Suite 225 
4822 Madison Yards Way 6th Floor 
 Malvern PENNSYLVANIA 19355   
Madison WISCONSIN 53705   
   FOR:  PJM Power Providers Group 
  FOR:  Public Service Commission of Wisconsin 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 James Talbert-Slagle  
Sarah McKinley  
 Ten Franklin Square  
2811 13TH RD S  
 NEW BRITAIN CONNECTICUT 06051-2644   
ARLINGTON VIRGINIA 22204   
   FOR:  Connecticut Office of Consumer Counsel 
  FOR:   
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Lisa Jacobson President 
Carrie Zalewski VP & Markets and Transmission 
 805 15TH ST NW STE 710  
Washington DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20036   
 WASHINGTON DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 20005   
  FOR:  American Clean Power Association 
   FOR:  Business Council for Sustainable Energy 
  Status:  REPS 
   Status:  REPS 
 Robert Endris Associate General Counsel 
Justin Hinton  
 215 S. Cascade Street  
201 Worthen Drive  
 Fergus Falls MINNESOTA 56537   
Little Rock ARKANSAS 72212   
   FOR:  Otter Tail Power Company 
  FOR:  Southwest Power Pool, Inc. 
   Status:  REPS 
  Status:  REPS 
 Hunter Budd  
 101 E KENNEDY BLVD STE 2700  
 TAMPA FLORIDA 33602   
   FOR:  Digital Energy Council 
   Status:  REPS 
