--- PAGE 1 ---
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BEFORE THE
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION
Interconnection of Large Loads to
the Interstate Transmission System
)
)
Docket No. RM26-4-000
REPLY COMMENTS OF THE ENTERGY OPERATING COMPANIES
In response to the Commission’s October 27, 2025 Notice Inviting Comments,1 Entergy
Services, LLC, (“Entergy Services”) on behalf of the Entergy Operating Companies,2 offers the
following brief reply comments as the Commission considers the Department of Energy’s
proposed advance notice of proposed rulemaking (“proposed ANOPR”) regarding the
interconnection of large loads.  Again, the Entergy Operating Companies appreciate the
Commission’s consideration of these important issues and the opportunity to provide input based
on their experience.  The purpose of these reply comments is to address some of the key topics
raised in some commenters’ initial comments, in order to advance the debate on these topics and
to provide information that the Entergy Operating Companies hope will assist the Commission as
it decides how to proceed.3
First, the evidence presented in initial comments does not support a nationwide edict.  As
with any administrative action, the scope of any Final Rule must be based on substantial
1
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, FERC Docket No.
RM26-4-000, Notice Inviting Comments (Oct. 27, 2025); see also Interconnection of Large
Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, FERC Docket No. RM26-4-000, Notice Granting
Extension of Time (Nov. 7, 2025).
2
The Entergy Operating Companies are Entergy Arkansas, LLC, Entergy Louisiana, LLC
(“Entergy Louisiana”), Entergy Mississippi, LLC (“Entergy Mississippi”), Entergy New Orleans,
LLC, and Entergy Texas, Inc.
3
The Entergy Operating Companies do not necessarily agree with comments that are not
addressed in these reply comments.

--- PAGE 2 ---
2
evidence and should be focused on resolving specific problems rather than broad hypothetical
concerns. Second, in light of the evidence offered by many parties illustrating the success of
existing large load interconnection processes and the Department of Energy’s objective of
smoothing the path to additional interconnections, the Commission should consider a rule that
establishes backstop procedures and does not interfere with existing state processes. Third, in
order to avoid disrupting generator interconnection reforms, the Commission should not direct
the creation of combined generator and load interconnection queues. Fourth, given the
Department of Energy’s objectives, the threshold defining “large loads” should be based on the
load’s size (Entergy Services recommends 100 megawatts (“MW”)) and not its voltage. Fifth,
because it is everyone’s goal to ensure that interconnections to the bulk electric system proceed
reliably, the Commission should reiterate that reliability remains the first priority. Finally, given
the overwhelming support for existing and ongoing interconnection processes, the benefits of
commercial certainty, and the need for the Commission and transmission providers to have
sufficient time to implement any Final Rule, the Commission should clarify that existing and in-
progress interconnections will be grandfathered.
I.
Evidence Does Not Support Commission Action On a Nationwide Basis
Public utilities have the right to propose their own tariff provisions in the first instance.4
The Commission may order a public utility to file new rates, terms, or conditions for
jurisdictional service only if it first finds the existing rates, terms, or conditions unlawful.5  The
Commission’s decision must be based on substantial evidence and should be focused on
resolving specific problems rather than broad hypothetical concerns.6
4
E.g., Atl. City Elec. Co. v. FERC, 295 F.3d 1, 9 (D.C. Cir. 2002).
5
E.g., id.
6
E.g., Fla. Mun. Power Agency v. FERC, 315 F.3d 362, 365 (D.C. Cir. 2003).

--- PAGE 3 ---
3
As Entergy Services explained in its initial comments, we believe the Commission has
jurisdiction over interconnections of large loads as part of its jurisdiction over interstate
transmission service.7  The Commission thus may order a public utility to adopt new or changed
rules for the interconnection of large loads.  It may do so, however, only if it finds substantial
evidence that the new or changed rules are required to ensure that the rates, terms, or conditions
for large load interconnections are just, reasonable, or not unduly discriminatory or preferential.8
And if it does so, the Commission must ensure that it does not encroach on the exclusive
jurisdiction of retail regulators.9  Indeed, on the day initial comments were due in this
proceeding, the Commission accepted a bilateral agreement related to a new data center being
constructed.10  In its order, the Commission noted that the retail regulator retains authority to
establish terms of retail service between the utility and large load customer, including retail
consumer protection provisions.11
When considering the claims made in initial comments filed in this docket—and whether
those claims amount to substantial evidence showing that existing rates, terms, or conditions for
large load interconnections are unjust, unreasonable, or unduly discriminatory or preferential—it
is important to consider three well-established principles.  First, the Commission has recognized
that there are “significant differences between each” Regional Transmission Organization
7
Comments of the Entergy Operating Companies at 10-11 (“Entergy Comments”).
8
E.g., Promoting Wholesale Competition Through Open Access Non-Discriminatory
Trans. Servs. by Pub. Utils.; Recovery of Stranded Costs by Pub. Utils. and Transmitting Utils.,
Order No. 888-A, FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,048 at 30,176, 30,202, order on reh'g, Order No.
888-B, 81 FERC ¶ 61,248 (1997), order on reh'g, Order No. 888-C, 82 FERC ¶ 61,046 (1998),
aff'd in relevant part sub nom. Transmission Access Policy Study Group v. FERC, 225 F.3d 667
(D.C. Cir. 2000), aff'd sub nom. New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1 (2002).
9
Entergy Comments at 12-17.
10
Peco Energy Co., 193 FERC ¶ 61,148 (2025).
11
Id. at P 32.

--- PAGE 4 ---
4
(“RTO”)/Independent System Operator, and that rules should reflect the characteristics of a
particular system.12  In a proceeding like this, the Commission cannot automatically extrapolate
specific claims made about load interconnections in one area to other parts of the country.
For example, a number of initial comments filed in this proceeding address load
interconnections within PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (“PJM”).13  While Entergy Services takes
no position on the merits of claims related to PJM or Transmission Owners within PJM, the
Commission should recognize that those claims are PJM- or Transmission Owner-specific.14
There is no basis to assume they apply to other regions of the country or other Transmission
Owners, which have different facts and different local rules applicable to load interconnections.
There are pending dockets related to the integration of large loads in PJM, and the Commission
can issue PJM-specific guidance or holdings in those dockets.15  With regard to the Midcontinent
Independent System Operator, Inc. (“MISO”), the Commission has explained that “MISO differs
from other RTOs because of the extensive use of bilateral contracts and cost-of-service
regulation in MISO as compared to the prevalence of retail-choice in other RTOs.”16  These
differences are important considerations when considering interconnections of large loads.
12
E.g., Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 162 FERC ¶ 61,176 at P 57 (2018); PJM
Interconnection, L.L.C., 119 FERC ¶ 61,063 at P 39 (2007).
13
E.g., Comments of Constellation Energy Generation, LLC; Comments of Monitoring
Analytics, LLC (“Monitoring Analytics Comments”).
14
See Monitoring Analytics Comments at 1 (Monitoring Analytics, LLC, the Independent
Market Monitor for PJM, attached a Complaint against PJM to its Comments, and made clear
that its Complaint “is specific to the PJM market rules”).
15
See Motion for Expedited Action of Constellation Energy Generation, LLC, PJM
Interconnection, L.L.C., Docket Nos. EL25-49-000 et al. at 2-3 (filed on Nov. 21, 2025)
(requesting Commission action and describing status of proceedings addressing PJM load
interconnection processes).
16
Midwest Indep. Tran. Sys. Operator, Inc., 139 FERC ¶ 61,199 at P 38 (2012) (citation
omitted), order on reh’g, 153 FERC ¶ 61,229 (2015).

--- PAGE 5 ---
5
Second, existing rates, terms, and conditions for a service are not unjust or unreasonable
simply because alternative approaches are available, or because a party may prefer such
alternatives.17  For example, the fact that a party may prefer a different type of transmission or
interconnection service for a large load interconnection than the services that currently are
available, or different pricing for a particular service, does not make the current service or
pricing unjust, unreasonable, or unduly discriminatory or preferential.
Third, a complainant or the Commission has the burden of proof under Section 206 of the
Federal Power Act (“FPA”)18 to show that existing rates, terms, or conditions of service are
unjust, unreasonable, or unduly discriminatory or preferential.19  Unsupported allegations are not
sufficient to meet the burden of proof under Section 206.20  The party with the burden of proof
instead “must make an adequate proffer of evidence including pertinent information and analysis
to support its claims.”21  Without such information, “alternative proposals are not ripe for
consideration.”22
17
E.g., Building for the Future Through Electric Regional Transm. Planning and Cost
Allocation, Order No. 1920-B, 191 FERC ¶ 61,026 at P 80 (2025); Petal Gas Storage, LLC v.
FERC, 496 F.3d 695, 703 (D.C. Cir. 2007).
18
16 U.S.C. § 824e.
19
E.g., Ameren Servs. Co. v. Midwest Indep. Transm. Sys. Operator, Inc., 125 FERC ¶
61,161 at P 9 (2008) (“Complainants carry the burden of proof . . . and therefore must
demonstrate, on the basis of substantial evidence . . . that the rate in effect is unjust and
unreasonable.”), order on reh’g, 127 FERC ¶ 61,121 (2009), aff’d sub nom. Ameren Servs. Co. v
FERC, 739 F. App’x. 646 (D.C. Cir. 2018); Southern Cos. Energy Marketing, Inc., 111 FERC ¶
61,144 at P 24 (2005) (Commission recognizing it bore burden of proof in FPA Section 206
proceeding).
20
E.g., Californians for Renewable Energy, Inc. v. Pac. Gas & Elec. Co., 142 FERC ¶
61,143 at P 18 (2013).
21
Ill. Mun. Elec. Agency v. Central Ill. Pub. Serv. Co., 76 FERC ¶ 61,084 at 61,482 (1996).
22
Cal. Indep. Sys. Operator Corp., 111 FERC ¶ 61,337 at P 27 (2005).

--- PAGE 6 ---
6
With those principles in mind, it becomes clear that, unlike the Order No. 888
proceeding,23 the evidence here does not support Commission action on a nationwide basis.
Again, Entergy Services takes no position on claims related to other regions, but there is no
evidence that would support a finding that load interconnections in MISO generally, or the
service territories of the Entergy Operating Companies specifically, are unjust, unreasonable, or
unduly discriminatory or preferential.  The evidence in fact shows to the contrary.
In its initial comments, MISO explained in detail the processes it uses and the results it
has obtained related to large load interconnections.24  That explanation shows that MISO’s
processes work well.  With regard to the Entergy Operating Companies’ service territories, the
existing retail regulatory frameworks currently include rules that apply to interconnections and
services to new loads.  These rules are efficient and provide for significant input from retail
regulators.25  As we explained in our initial comments, under those frameworks, Google is
developing a data center in Crittenden County, Arkansas; Meta is developing a data center in
Richland Parish, Louisiana; and Amazon Web Services (“AWS”) and Avaio are developing data
centers in Mississippi.26  These data centers have moved forward under time-frames consistent
with the customers’ business needs, and a large part of our ability to move quickly is due to
23
Standardization of Generator Interconnection Agreements & Procs., Order No. 2003,
104 FERC ¶ 61,103 at P 19 (2003) (“[t]he record underlying Order No. 888 showed that public
utilities owning or controlling jurisdictional transmission facilities had the incentive to engage in,
and had engaged in, unduly discriminatory transmission practices”), order on reh’g, Order No.
2003-A, 106 FERC ¶ 61,220, order on reh’g, Order No. 2003-B, 109 FERC ¶ 61,287 (2004),
order on reh’g, Order No. 2003-C, 111 FERC ¶ 61,401 (2005), aff’d sub nom. Nat’l Ass’n of
Regul. Util. Comm’rs v. FERC, 475 F.3d 1277 (D.C. Cir. 2007).
24
E.g., Comments of Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc. at 6-13 (“MISO
Comments”).
25
Entergy Comments at 8.
26
Id. at 7.

--- PAGE 7 ---
7
partnering with our states on economic development and existing retail frameworks that are
efficient.27
The addition of these loads will provide benefits to other customers,  improve reliability,
and result in upgraded facilities and transmission infrastructure.  For example:

The addition of AWS will help Entergy Mississippi create $2 billion in benefits
for all its customers, including $1.3 billion in savings on new power generation
costs, $700 million in savings on future fuel costs, and $300 million in projects to
improve grid reliability for all customers made possible by AWS revenue, at no
cost to other Entergy Mississippi customers.28

Meta’s data center being an Entergy Louisiana customer means Entergy
Louisiana’s current customer bills will be lower than they otherwise would have
been.  There will be (a) $650 million in customer savings over Meta’s 15-year
agreement, supported by Meta’s contributions to costs like storm recovery and
resilience, (b) a 10% reduction in the cost of grid upgrades for other customers
due to Meta’s electricity bill payments, and (c) 10% lower storm charges for
Entergy Louisiana customers once the Meta facility is operational.29
It is clear that the Entergy Operating Companies have every reason to work with large load
customers and retail regulators to interconnect large loads quickly and reliably.
As discussed above, claims about other regions of the country or general claims with no
factual support30 do not show that the rates, terms, or conditions of interconnections of large
loads in MISO or the Entergy’s Operating Companies’ service territories are unjust,
27
Id. at 8.
28
Entergy website, AWS fact sheet (2025), available at https://www.entergy.com/wp-
content/uploads/AWS_WinMississippi_001.pdf.
29
Id., Meta fact sheet (2025), available at https://www.entergy.com/wp-
content/uploads/2025/11/MetaDataCenterFactSheet.pdf.
30
E.g., Comments of Eolian L.P. at 17-19 (claiming with no cited factual support that “[a]ll
of these problems are made worse by the absence of standardized large load interconnection
procedures”); Comments of Geronimo Power, LLC at 2 (claiming with no factual support that
“the current load interconnection framework is falling short and legacy processes are proving
incapable of meeting the demands of the industries of the future”); Comments of Invenergy
Wind Development North America LLC at 7 (claiming with no factual support that the “current
patchwork of interconnection rules promotes anticompetitive behavior and discourages even
viable load interconnection requests”) (“Invenergy Comments”).

--- PAGE 8 ---
8
unreasonable, or unduly discriminatory or preferential.  For these reasons, the Commission
should not adopt the requests of some Commenters asking the Commission to adopt standardized
rules across the country and to require that such rules be included in pro forma procedures that
would be filed with the Commission.31  At most, and as we discuss further below, a backstop role
can be justified for the MISO or Entergy Operating Company regions.
II.
The Commission Should Consider Establishing a Backstop Role in Order to
Support Well-Functioning Existing Load Interconnection Procedures
As many commenters have expressed, in certain regions of the country, existing load
interconnection procedures are, by and large, working well.32  As discussed above, the record
does not support any finding of undue discrimination; in contrast to landmark Commission
rulemakings like Order Nos. 888,33 there is no concrete evidence of a nationwide load
interconnection problem.  For these reasons, the Entergy Operating Companies recommend that
the Commission take action that is both supported by the record and consistent with the
Department of Energy’s stated objectives in the proposed ANOPR: the Commission should
consider establishing a backstop role, so that if load interconnection procedures are stalled for an
unreasonable period of time, a large load has clear procedural recourse.  At least two other
commenters have also suggested such a role based on principles of cooperative federalism.34
Defining backstop procedures would serve at least two purposes: besides providing large
loads with greater certainty about how and when they can be studied, it would also establish an
31
E.g., Comments of Vistra Corp. at 4.
32
E.g., MISO Comments at 1-18; Comments of the Organization of MISO States, Inc. at 3;
Comments of Consumer Energy Alliance at 2-3 (“Consumer Energy Alliance Comments”);
Initial Comments of the Louisiana and Mississippi Public Service Commissions at 2.
33
E.g., Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103 at P 19 (“[t]he record underlying Order No.
888 showed that public utilities owning or controlling jurisdictional transmission facilities had
the incentive to engage in, and had engaged in, unduly discriminatory transmission practices”).
34
Consumer Energy Alliance Comments at 4-5; Initial Comments of the Arkansas Public
Service Commission at 3.

--- PAGE 9 ---
9
incentive for states and retail electric providers to act expeditiously, particularly if they wish to
continue incorporating transmission interconnection into their broader electric service
agreements for new loads.  A backstop rule would also enable transmission providers to exercise
necessary flexibility and judgment in formulating the studies and procedures that are best suited
to their systems.  These may vary due to regional differences, and for reliability purposes, it is
important that the Commission allow for such variations.
III.
The Commission Should Not Establish a Standard Combined Queue for Load and
Generation Interconnections
As Entergy Services explained in its initial comments, the Commission should not
establish a standard queue for load interconnections.35  In addition to the reasons we discussed,
we agree with MISO’s discussion explaining why a standard queue would lead to delays in
studying load interconnection requests.36  Establishing a standard queue for load interconnections
would be particularly unwarranted in areas such as the service territories of the Entergy
Operating Companies, where interconnections of large loads are being completed under efficient
and timely processes overseen by retail regulators.37
Certain parties go beyond arguing for a standard queue for load interconnections, and
argue that the Commission should establish a standard combined queue for load and generation
interconnections.38  Establishing a combined queue for load and generation would be even more
35
Entergy Comments at 19-20.
36
MISO Comments at 13-17.
37
Serving new large loads is facilitated by mechanisms like the MISO Expedited Resource
Addition Study (“ERAS”), which calls for retail regulators to verify that a generating unit that is
requesting interconnection service is associated with a resource adequacy need (which may arise
due to the anticipated service needs of a new large load).  To be clear, ERAS is not a combined
queue.  It does not displace or eliminate the need for the Entergy Operating Companies and
MISO to study the related large loads; rather, ERAS includes provisions to ensure that MISO can
efficiently study and make plans for generation additions to the system.
38
E.g., Invenergy Comments at 4.

--- PAGE 10 ---
10
problematic than a standardized queue for load interconnection requests only.  While it is not
clear exactly how a combined queue proposal would be implemented, it is clear that generation
and loads should be studied separately, as load and generation interconnections have separate
effects on the bulk electric system.39
Moreover, a combined queue likely would lead to delays in processing interconnection
requests even beyond those that would arise from a standardized load interconnection queue.
The generator interconnection queue historically has suffered problems with delays and
uncertainty,40 and adding an additional element to that process only can be expected to
exacerbate those problems, or potentially disrupt the ongoing reforms that are intended to reduce
queue times.41
IV.
A 20 MW Threshold to Define Large Loads is Too Low
Among the principles proposed by the ANOPR is that any reforms adopted in a Final
Rule should apply only to new loads of 20 MW or more. As the Entergy Operating Companies
explained in their initial comments, any threshold lower than 75-100 MW is more likely to
capture speculative projects and could result in a Final Rule so broad that it would render it
ineffective and reduce or eliminate any efficiencies that would otherwise be gained.42 While the
39
Entergy Comments at 27-28.
40
Improvements to Generator Interconnection Procedures and Agreements, Order No.
2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054 at P 3 (noting the “large interconnection queue backlogs and
uncertainty regarding the cost and timing of interconnecting to the transmission system”), order
on reh'g, 185 FERC ¶ 61,063 (2023), order on reh'g, Order No. 2023-A, 186 FERC ¶ 61,199
(2024).
41
E.g., Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 190 FERC ¶ 61,057 (2025) (order
accepting MISO Tariff revisions to implement a cap on the amount of MW that can be studied in
a cluster in MISO’s definitive planning phase interconnection queue study process);
Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 186 FERC ¶ 61,054 (2024) (order accepting MISO
Tariff revisions to increase milestone payments, adopt an automatic withdrawal penalty, revise
certain withdrawal penalty provisions, and expand site control requirements for interconnection
facilities).
42
Entergy Comments at 23.

--- PAGE 11 ---
11
initial comments filed in this proceeding do not yield a consensus for a specific MW threshold,
they do yield a consensus that a threshold of 20 MW is too low. A majority of the commentors
outlined concerns similar to those outlined by the Entergy Operating Companies in response to
the proposed 20 MW threshold: namely, that a threshold as low as 20 MW would include
projects unlikely to have a significant impact on the transmission system,43 and in turn, that
consideration of these speculative or unimpactful projects would result in delay when
administering any process adopted in a Final Rule.44
Some commenters proposed metrics other than load size measured in megawatts for
purposes of defining a large load. For example, NRG Energy, Inc. proposed that the Commission
employ a rebuttable presumption that interconnections with 230-kV facilities be considered large
loads.45 However, employing a rebuttable presumption of a certain voltage does not promote the
stated goals of the ANOPR of efficiency and speed of process. Instead, a rebuttable presumption
of a certain voltage does two things: it presents an opportunity for delay as the presumptive level
is disputed, and it uses a voltage level as a proxy for establishing a megawatt threshold to define
a large load. Rather than establishing a threshold, this would unnecessarily complicate what
should be a simple and quick determination of eligibility. Establishing a megawatt threshold,
albeit one much higher than 20 MW, would eliminate the need for any additional process around
what qualifies as a large load under any Final Rule.
43
E.g., Comments of ITC Holdings Corp. at 3 (“The proposed threshold of 20 MW may
capture a range of projects that are unlikely to have significant impacts on the broader grid, and
which may in fact be slowed by a process intended for the unprecedently large loads that are now
being proposed for immediate construction.”).
44
Entergy Comments at 21-26; see also, e.g., Comments of Old Dominion Electric
Cooperative at 5 (“If the threshold is too low, it could lead to a greater number of load
interconnections being processed under the large-load interconnection rules than is feasible or
necessary.”).
45
Comments of NRG Energy, Inc. at 9 (“NRG Comments”).

--- PAGE 12 ---
12
Finally, only a handful of commenters expressed any support that a 20 MW threshold
would be appropriate for determining large loads in the context of the expedited consideration
contemplated by the ANOPR.46  Initial comments that support the 20 MW threshold do so with a
nod to maintaining consistency with Order No. 2003 or with vague assertions that the 20 MW
amount has worked well in other Commission proceedings.47 As Entergy Services and others
explained in their initial comments, the principles guiding the Commission’s determination in
Order No. 2003 regarding generally applicable interconnection procedures are largely irrelevant,
or even at odds with the proposed ANOPR’s stated goals of a timely and orderly interconnection
of large loads.48 Therefore, establishing a 20 MW threshold based on maintaining consistency
with Order No. 2003 becomes an arbitrary metric that may do more harm than good.
Accordingly, while some commenters are hesitant to assign a specific MW threshold for
the definition of large loads, the consensus among commentors is that increasing the threshold
above 20 MW, to an amount of 75 MW-100 MW, would suffice. The Entergy Operating
46
E.g., Comments of EDF Power Solutions, Inc. at 12 (“[20 MW] is an appropriate
threshold for new large load interconnections because it is likely to include the bulk of new large
load interconnections.”); see also, Comments of the California Independent System Operator,
Inc. at 5 (“CAISO Comments”); Comments of Terraflux LLC at 1 (“Terraflux Comments”);
Comments of Fervo Energy Co. at 2-3 (“Fervo Comments”).
47
E.g., Fervo Comments at 3 (“Aligning the applicability threshold for large-load and
hybrid interconnections with this framework can ensure procedural consistency, reduce
administrative complexity for transmission providers, and create a predictable pathway for
customers whose system impacts are similar to those of large generators.”); CAISO Comments at
5 (“The 20 MW threshold has proven to be a reliable figure to assess the risk a generation or
storage facility represents to the transmission grid.”); TerraFlux Comments at 1 (“We agree with
the second principle’s assertion that reforms should apply to new loads greater than 20MW and
new hybrid facilities greater than 20MW, aligned with FERC’s generation thresholds of the
[Large Generator Interconnection Procedure].”).
48
Entergy Comments at 22-24; see also Comments of the Louisiana and Mississippi Public
Service Commissions at 8 (“20 MW is too low and will result in FERC exercising
interconnection jurisdiction over hundreds and thousands of new loads, far beyond FERC's
capabilities of reasonably addressing.”).

--- PAGE 13 ---
13
Companies agree with the consensus that 20 MW is too low and recommend 100 MW as an
appropriate threshold for defining large loads covered by the proposed ANOPR.
V.
Transmission Reliability Must Remain the Commission’s First Priority
In response to the fifth principle, regarding the study of hybrid facilities,49 a number of
commenters contend that hybrid facilities should be studied based on their net injections or
withdrawals.50  Some argue that even if the load and generation interconnection points differ,
there may still be a basis to “net” the load and generation as a “hybrid” resource.51  Others argue
that the term “hybrid” resource should be expansive and include storage and other
technologies.52
As we explained in our initial comments, the reliability implications of interconnecting
hybrid loads are not as simple as some commenters would suggest.53  Studying only a
hypothetical “net” injection or withdrawal, without considering the system effects of the hybrid
load demanding up to its full gross level of demand (when, for example, its co-located generating
facility is unavailable), would create unreasonable reliability risks.
These already complex questions become even further complicated and necessitate
additional studies to ensure bulk electric system reliability if the scope of “hybrid” resources is
broadened.  Including battery storage, for example, requires additional study scenarios (as
compared to a traditional generator), because these facilities both draw from and inject onto the
49
Proposed ANOPR at ¶ 22.
50
E.g., Comments of ENGIE North America, Inc. at 3-6; Comments of the Load Flexibility
Parties at 6 (“Load Flexibility Comments”); Comments of Bloom Energy Corp. at 8-9.
51
E.g., Eolian Comments at 28 (suggesting hybrid loads should include those where the
“generation/storage component” is “electrically close”).
52
E.g., Comments of the U.S. Energy Storage Coalition at 1-2; Load Flexibility Comments
at 6.
53
Entergy Comments at 26-30.

--- PAGE 14 ---
14
grid — a fact that storage developers like GridStor LLC do not dispute.54  Their impacts on
system voltage are also different from those of traditional generating facilities.  Similarly, if
“flexible loads” (like demand response or curtailable loads) are incorporated into the definition
of “hybrid facilities,” the Commission must ensure that transmission providers have sufficient
time to design studies that accurately depict the potential impacts of such ”flexible” load,
including any flexibility limitations they may have.  Curtailment raises a number of additional
questions and issues, like the requisite notice that must be provided to curtailment providers, how
curtailment integrates with existing RTO market processes, whether the curtailment can be called
upon for capacity or transmission issues, and how often (and for how long) the curtailment can
be called.  Any of these can materially impact whether the curtailment offers meaningful value to
the transmission system.  And, in MISO, there are already a set of defined demand response
products which are available to new loads.  Thus, it is premature to assume that the breadth of
hybrid options proposed by various commenters should all be entitled to expedited
interconnection study or that expedited study is feasible.
While some commenters offer suggestions as to the types of additional studies and
parameters that should apply to “flexible” loads,55 there has not been enough time for all key
stakeholders to sufficiently analyze these suggestions to determine whether they would be
adequate to facilitate the reliable integration of flexible loads onto the bulk electric system,
whether they are reasonable or fair to other participants, and how long it would take to
implement them.
54
Comments of GridStor LLC at 3-5.
55
E.g. Comments of Critical Loop at 2-3.

--- PAGE 15 ---
15
Further, demand response and/or curtailability are not solely load interconnection issues –
rather they are part of the development of adequate supply arrangements for new retail
service.  In jurisdictions with bundled retail service, supply arrangements are part of the terms
and conditions of retail service, which is the responsibility of state and retail regulators.  In such
circumstances, the Commission should not use a new load interconnection rule to substitute its
judgment for that of state regulators about what constitutes reliable retail supply arrangements.
The Entergy Operating Companies support the development of new technologies to
enhance overall resource adequacy and to facilitate the integration of new loads in this growth
era, but it is crucial that these technologies are tested and integrated responsibly and reliably onto
the existing bulk electric system.  As the North American Electric Reliability Corporation
explained in its initial comments, it has already begun a number of deliberate efforts to evaluate
the reliability implications of interconnecting large loads.56  It should be given sufficient time to
perform this work.
VI.
The Commission Should Confirm That the Orderly Transition to and
Implementation of a New Rule Will Not Encumber Existing and Developing
Agreements
A strong consensus among commenters has settled on the point that existing load
interconnection and load interconnections in progress at the time of the issuance of any Final
Rule should be grandfathered.57  The Commission should affirmatively ensure no retroactive
impact on in-process or existing agreements.  The breadth and volume of comments that
recommend maintaining load interconnection processes already underway reflect current
56
Comments of The North American Electric Reliability Corporation at 13-17.
57
E.g., NRG Comments at 28-29; Comments of Vantage Data Centers at 12; Comments of
Office of the Ohio Consumers’ Counsel at 12; Comments of  the American Clean Power
Association at 2; Comments of Amazon Energy LLC at 3-4.

--- PAGE 16 ---
16
successes in some regions. Projects that have already made significant financial, contractual, and
engineering commitments should not be disrupted.
Regardless of the specifics in the Final Rule, enough time should be provided for
implementation.  A significant transition period will be necessary for states, stakeholders and
transmission owners to adjust to a new regulatory scheme.
While most commenters have not suggested specific dates or lengths of time from
issuance of a Final Rule to execution, the required time for any transition and implementation
will depend on the scope and details contained in the Final Rule.  Until such rules are better
defined, it is not possible to identify a reasonable time for implementation of those rules.
Whatever rules are adopted will almost certainly require resolution of numerous technical and
complicated issues,58 and in many cases consideration of already existing rules.  It follows that a
suitable transition period should be provided, and more concrete feedback can be given once a
specific proposal is issued.
VII.
Conclusion
As discussed above and in their initial comments, the Entergy Operating Companies
appreciate the Commission’s consideration of these important issues, and ask that the
Commission factor into its decision-making the legal and policy recommendations identified in
both sets of comments.
[Signature Page Follows]
58
E.g., Comments of Transmission Access Policy Study Group at 7-8 (requesting a
Technical Conference).

--- PAGE 17 ---
17
Respectfully Submitted,
Karis Parnham
Entergy Services, LLC
919 Congress Ave
Suite 701
Austin, TX  78701
512-487-3986
kparnha@entergy.com
/s/  Andrea Weinstein
Andrea Weinstein
Glen Bernstein
Michael Chase
Jeffrey Phillips
Entergy Services, LLC
101 Constitution Avenue, NW
Suite 200 East
Washington, DC  20001
202-530-7342
aweinst@entergy.com
December 5, 2025
