--- PAGE 1 ---
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA​
BEFORE THE​
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
​
) 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the​
) ​ ​
​
Docket No. RM26-4-000                            
Interstate Transmission System​
) 
​
) 
 
REPLY COMMENTS OF THE DATA CENTER COALITION 
 
On October 27, 2025, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Commission or 
FERC) issued a Notice Inviting Comments in this docket following a directive from the 
Secretary of Energy pursuant to Section 403 of the Department of Energy Organization 
Act. The Data Center Coalition (DCC) filed its comments (Initial Comments) in this docket on 
November 20, 2025. DCC respectfully submits the following reply comments pursuant to the 
Commission’s Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANOPR) concerning the timely and 
orderly interconnection of large loads, and November 7, 2025 Notice Granting Extension of 
Time. We again commend DOE and FERC for recognizing that interconnection policy is now 
directly tied to America’s energy security, economic leadership, and technological 
competitiveness. 
I.​   Communications 
Correspondence and communications regarding this filing should be directed to the 
following: 
 
Aaron Tinjum                                   ​  ​
Vice President, Energy​
Data Center Coalition​
1250 H Street, NW, ​
Suite 880, Washington, DC 20005 
aaron@datacentercoalition.org 
 
Morgan A. Sipple​
Senior Energy Policy Manager​
Data Center Coalition 
1250 H Street, NW, ​
Suite 880, Washington, DC 20005 
morgan@datacentercoalition.org 
 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
II.​   About DCC 
The Data Center Coalition (DCC) is the membership association for the U.S. data center 
industry, representing leading data center owners and operators as well as companies leasing 
large amounts of data center capacity.1 DCC’s member companies provide the digital 
infrastructure that supports the applications, capabilities, and essential services that enable our 
modern economy. Our members are making significant, multi-billion dollar investments in 
America’s infrastructure that benefit and provide employment opportunities to states and local 
communities. These investments support hundreds of thousands of quality jobs across the nation, 
and contribute billions of dollars in local, state, and federal tax revenue, providing consistent 
funding for important community priorities like public safety, education, and transportation. 
Between 2017 and 2023, the data center industry’s total contribution to U.S. GDP was $3.5 
trillion. In 2023, the U.S. data center industry directly employed more than 600,000 workers and 
supported 4.7 million jobs in total. The sector generated $404 billion in total labor income and 
contributed $162.7 billion in federal, state, and local taxes in 2023. Notably, each direct data 
center job sustains more than six additional jobs elsewhere in the economy, underscoring the 
sector’s broad multiplier effect.2 The Data Center Coalition (DCC) filed its comments (Initial 
Comments) in this docket on November 20, 2025.3 
III.​ There is industry support for Commission action and a legally durable approach 
In our Initial Comments, DCC commended the Department of Energy and the 
Commission for initiating this critical examination and urged a “measured approach” that 
3 Comments of the Data Center Coalition, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“DCC 
Initial Comments”). 
2 PwC, Economic Contributions of Data Centers in the United States, February 2025, available 
at https://tinyurl.com/PwCDataCenterReport.  
1 The Data Center Coalition’s website address is www.datacentercoalition.org. Public testimony 
and written comments submitted by DCC do not necessarily reflect the views of each individual 
DCC member. 
2 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
provides clarity while respecting jurisdictional balances.4 We do so again here, and note that this 
call for a pragmatic and predictable federal framework has been echoed by other industry 
participants in the record directly engaged in developing the digital infrastructure essential to 
furthering national security and growing the U.S. economy.5 
Commenters emphasized the national imperatives behind this proceeding, noting the 
economic and strategic importance of jointly facilitating large load interconnections while 
furthering efficient and cost-effective reforms, delivering co-benefits for consumers and end 
users across the grid.6 The Commission, in collaboration with state regulators who continue to 
play key roles in large load interconnection, has a critical opportunity before it to develop an 
open and nondiscriminatory framework necessary to meet this challenge.7 This consistent 
theme—that interconnection reform is a prerequisite for U.S. leadership in AI, advanced 
manufacturing, and the digital economy—validates DCC’s position that the “status quo is not 
serving the nation’s economic or reliability needs.”8 The Commission’s role in providing a clear, 
workable, and legally durable structure as a result of this proceeding is not only appropriate but 
urgently needed. 
IV.​ Reinforcing the critical need for transition protections 
DCC’s Initial Comments strongly advocated for “clear and legally enforceable transition 
8 DCC Initial Comments at 3. 
7 See, e.g., Initial Comments of Microsoft, Inc., Docket No. RM26-4-000, at 2 (filed Nov. 21, 
2025) (noting the Commission’s leadership presents “an important opportunity… to develop an 
open and nondiscriminatory framework”). 
6 See, e.g., Initial Comments of Iron Mountain Data Centers, Docket No. RM26-4-000, at 1 (filed 
Nov. 21, 2025) (stating reforms “would provide efficient and cost-effective processes that result 
in fair cost allocation for all electric customers”).  
5 See, e.g., Initial Comments of Amazon Energy LLC, Docket No. RM26-4-000, at 1 (filed Nov. 
21, 2025) (supporting reforms that “help the United States connect new AI and advanced 
manufacturing investment quickly, while strengthening grid reliability and affordability for all 
customers”). 
4 DCC Initial Comments at 2. 
3 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
provisions” to ensure that reforms aimed at improving future processes do not disrupt projects 
that have made significant commitments under existing rules.9 This principle of regulatory 
certainty and the protection of settled expectations is fundamental to maintaining investment 
confidence, a concern shared across the industry.  
Some commenters have stated that projects with existing interconnection agreements 
must be permitted to move forward under their current frameworks and grandfathered from any 
new requirements,10 and any new requirements should be purely prospective.11 Support has been 
expressed for transition plans that mitigate existing risk and do not create new regulatory 
uncertainty for projects already under study or construction.12  
Regardless of specific flavor, the uniform support for robust transition rules underscores 
their overall necessity. As DCC stated, the goal of this proceeding must be to “accelerate—not 
pause—critical load and generation projects already advancing under existing frameworks.”13 
The Commission should incorporate explicit grandfathering and transition pathways in any final 
rule to provide this essential certainty. 
V.​ It is imperative the Commission resolve uncertainties around hybrid facility 
interconnections. 
 
DCC’s Initial Comments emphasized the urgent need to resolve the “highly inconsistent” 
13 DCC Initial Comments at 5. 
12 See, e.g., Microsoft Comments at 17 (expressing support for “transition plans that mitigate 
existing risk and do not create new regulatory risk or uncertainty for projects” and that provide 
stability for projects under study or construction). 
11 See, e.g., Iron Mountain Comments at 2 (“[E]xisting interconnection agreements should be 
exempted from actions the Commission orders as part of this docket and any new orders should 
be prospective.”). 
10 See, e.g., Comments of Vantage Data Centers, Docket No. RM26-4-000, at 11-12 (filed Nov. 
21, 2025) (“[I]t is imperative that projects with existing interconnection agreements are 
permitted to move forward under their current frameworks and grandfathered from any reform 
that is put in place.”); Amazon Energy Comments at 3 (urging prospective application and 
grandfathering for projects with executed agreements and significant financial commitment). 
9 Id. at 4. 
4 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
treatment of hybrid load-plus-generation facilities, which creates uncertainty and undermines 
potential reliability and cost benefits.14 DCC urged the Commission to act on the “complete 
record on co-location issues in PJM” to “deliver immediate clarity.”15 The record before FERC in 
this docket reveals detailed support for action in already-existing Commission records with 
emphasis on co-located or hybrid arrangements. 
●​ Support for Integrated Studies and Net Impact Analysis: DCC advocated for studying 
new load and new generation together to capture system benefits.16 This approach is 
strongly supported as a means to speed up the interconnection process by eliminating 
duplicative studies and facilitating more efficient grid planning.17 The principle of 
studying paired load and generation based on their requested injection and withdrawal 
rights has been endorsed as a way to facilitate development while minimizing strain on 
existing infrastructure.18 Detailed comments have highlighted the benefits of integrated 
studies, including reducing grid impacts, avoiding re-studies, and aligning net impact 
with interconnection costs.19 
●​ Expedited Treatment for Efficient Configurations: DCC’s framework supports 
efficient hybrid configurations as a “valid and efficient option.”20 The ANOPR’s Principle 
7, regarding expedited study for flexible configurations, has received significant 
attention. Support exists for creating expedited pathways for configurations that provide 
demonstrable grid benefits, with many commenters emphasizing the need for such 
pathways to accommodate the diverse operational profiles of large loads.21 Support has 
been expressed for considering expedited treatment as an incentive for voluntarily 
flexible loads or paired generation, while also urging cautious consideration of mandates 
21 See, e.g., Microsoft Comments at 15 (agreeing expedited processes “will be an important tool 
for accelerating the deployment of critical AI infrastructure,” while noting many data centers 
have limited curtailment capability). 
20 DCC Initial Comments at 6. 
19 See, e.g., Vantage Comments at 54-55 (detailing benefits including reducing grid impacts, 
avoiding re-studies, and aligning “net injection/withdraw” impact with interconnection costs). 
18 See, e.g., Comments of Google LLC, Docket No. RM26-4-000, at 40-41 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) 
(endorsing studying paired load and generation based on injection/withdrawal rights to facilitate 
development while minimizing grid strain). 
17 See, e.g., Microsoft Comments at 13-14 (stating combined studies “have the potential to speed 
up the interconnection process… by eliminating duplicative, and potentially conflicting, studies 
and will facilitate more efficient grid planning”). 
16 Id. at 5-6. 
15 Id. at 6 n.3. 
14 Id. at 5. 
5 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
that could create practical and regulatory complexities.22 It has also been raised that 
expedited processes should not be limited to curtailable loads, as this may be 
incompatible with operational requirements, and that coordination of new load and 
incremental generation alone warrants expedited study.23​
 
●​ Clarity on Interconnection Pathways and Immediate Action Needed: One key 
challenge identified by industry is the lack of a clear tariff pathway for hybrid facilities. 
Recommendations have been made to allow innovative proposals where a large load can 
present a package of resources to mitigate system impacts.24 Calls have been made for the 
Commission to establish nationwide rules governing interconnection arrangements 
involving generation resources paired with new large loads.25 There is also a request for 
clarity on the conditions for siting and operating co-located facilities prior to formal grid 
connection.26​
 
●​ Calls for Parallel Action in Pending Proceeding: Importantly, specific 
recommendations have been made for the Commission to expeditiously issue orders in 
relevant pending proceedings, to provide the industry and other stakeholders alike with 
much-needed guidance on the viability of large loads co-locating at generating facilities.27 
The collective weight of these comments underscores the urgent and practical need for 
the Commission to provide definitive guidance. As DCC noted in its initial comments, the 
Commission already has a ripe record in the pending PJM co-location proceeding (Docket Nos. 
EL25-49, EL25-20, AD24-11).28 Resolving this issue in the existing dockets, and extending 
principles nationally through this rulemaking, is the most direct way to unlock the significant 
system benefits that hybrid configurations offer and to provide the certainty developers require. 
28 DCC Initial Comments at 6 n.3. 
27 Amazon Energy Comments at 7 (“Amazon Energy respectfully encourages the Commission to 
expeditiously issue an order in the pending proceeding in Docket No. AD24-11-000, which 
would provide the industry with much needed guidance as to the viability of large loads 
co-locating at generating facilities going forward.”). 
26 See, e.g., Meta Comments at 6. 
25 See, e.g., Google Comments at 5-6. 
24 See, e.g., Comments of Equinix, Inc., Docket No. RM26-4-000, at 4-5 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) 
(recommending allowing “aggregated resource” proposals). 
23 See, e.g., Comments of Meta Platforms, Inc., Docket No. RM26-4-000, at 4-5 (filed Nov. 21, 
2025) (arguing expedited processes should not be limited to curtailable loads and that 
“coordination of new load and incremental new generation… warrants expedited study”). 
22 See, e.g., Google Comments at 42 (supporting consideration of expedited treatment as an 
incentive); Vantage Comments at 55-57 (urging cautious consideration of dispatchability 
mandates). 
6 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
VI.​ Preserving market access for stand-alone load 
While championing clarity for hybrid facilities, DCC’s Initial Comments underscored 
that a durable framework “must allow load to interconnect efficiently, whether or not that load is 
paired with on-site supply.”29 The interconnection process must continue to support stand-alone 
load procuring power through competitive wholesale markets, which harness competition for the 
benefit of all consumers. 
Throughout this record, the data center industry has affirmed principles of customer 
choice and commercial flexibility. Concerns have been raised against artificially constraining 
flexibility options to those located behind the same meter, at risk of creating uneconomic 
outcomes and inadvertently introducing discrimination.30 Caution has been advised that pairing 
of load with generation must remain a voluntary incentive, not a requirement, to avoid unjust and 
unreasonable 
discrimination.31 
The 
importance 
of 
multiple, 
geographically 
diverse 
interconnection points for operational resiliency has been highlighted, which relies on accessible 
grid interconnections.32 
The Commission’s longstanding commitment to open access and competitive markets is a 
cornerstone of the modern grid. Any new interconnection framework must preserve the ability of 
load to rely on these “competitive markets whose design the Commission has spent more than 
two decades refining.”33 
 
33 DCC Initial Comments at 7. 
32 See, e.g., Comments of Oracle America, Inc., Docket No. RM26-4-000, at 2 (filed Nov. 21, 
2025) (highlighting the need for “multiple data centers in multiple locations” for resiliency). 
31 See, e.g., Google Comments at 10 (cautioning that pairing must be a voluntary incentive to 
avoid being “unjust and unreasonable and unduly discriminatory”). 
30 See, e.g., Equinix Comments at 4 (warning against constraining flexibility options to 
behind-the-meter resources). 
29 Id. at 7. 
7 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
VII.​ Interconnection reform as part of a broader infrastructure and planning imperative 
DCC’s Initial Comments correctly framed interconnection delays as a “symptom of a 
deeper and more structural issue”—a lack of sufficient transmission infrastructure and 
forward-looking planning.34 The solution requires exercising the Commission’s existing 
authorities in parallel to address planning, grid-enhancing technologies, and generation 
interconnection reform. 
This “systemic” view of the issue has been reiterated by stakeholders throughout the 
record, with comments stating that the challenge is as much about the transmission grid itself as 
it is about interconnection, and arguing for a holistic transmission planning process that 
harmonizes load and generation interconnection.35 The transformative impact of large loads, and 
urgent need for interconnection processes that enable system-optimal investments, could not be 
clearer.36 DCC’s call for the Commission to “focus on the infrastructure challenge through 
appropriate long-term transmission planning” and to require deployment of grid-enhancing 
technologies is a necessary component of any effective interconnection reform effort.37 
VIII. Conclusion 
 There is broad-based agreement among stakeholders on the critical need for the Commission to: 
1.​ Establish a clear, predictable, and nondiscriminatory framework for large load 
interconnection; 
2.​ Enact strong transition protections for projects in advanced development; 
3.​ Resolve, with urgency, the regulatory uncertainty surrounding hybrid load-generation 
37 DCC Initial Comments at 10-11. 
36 See, e.g., Equinix Comments at 7 (discussing the “transformative impact” of large loads and 
arguing that “large load interconnection processes should enable system optimal investments”). 
35 See, e.g., Google Comments at 2 (stating the challenge “is as much about the transmission grid 
itself as it is the interconnection of data centers” and arguing for a “holistic transmission 
planning process”).  
34 Id. at 8. 
8 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
facilities, leveraging the existing record in related open dockets already before FERC; 
and 
4.​ Ensure any framework preserves the competitive market’s ability to serve stand-alone 
load. 
The need for timely interconnection is mission-critical for U.S. economic growth and 
strategic technological leadership. DCC reiterates its support for the Commission’s leadership in 
this area and urges the Commission to move expeditiously towards a framework that addresses 
these priority issues, providing the certainty needed to power America’s future. The national 
stakes are clear, and maintaining resource adequacy, economic competitiveness, and 
technological leadership require the nation to remain capable of interconnecting both load and 
supply at the pace required by today’s economy. DCC looks forward to working with the 
Commission, states, utilities, RTOs, and other stakeholders to help develop an approach that 
meets these challenges while upholding the principles of reliability, nondiscrimination, and open 
access that remain at the core of federal energy regulation. 
Respectfully Submitted,  
/s/ Aaron Tinjum​
Vice President, Energy​
Data Center Coalition​
1250 H Street, NW, ​
Suite 880, Washington, DC 20005 
aaron@datacentercoalition.org ​
 ​
Morgan A. Sipple 
Senior Energy Policy Manager  
Data Center Coalition ​
1250 H Street, NW, ​
Suite 880, Washington, DC 20005 
morgan@datacentercoalition.org 
 
 
 
 
9 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE  
  
I hereby certify that I have this day served the foregoing document upon each person 
designated on the official service list compiled by the Secretary in this proceeding. Dated at 
Herndon, VA this 5th day of December 2025.   
  
/s/ Morgan A. Sipple 
Morgan A. Sipple 
Senior Energy Policy Manager  
Data Center Coalition  
1250 H Street, NW, ​
Suite 880, Washington, DC 20005​
morgan@datacentercoalition.org  
 
10 
