--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate   
 
) 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Transmission System  
 
 
 
 
) 
 
COMMENTS OF THE INDICATED PJM TRANSMISSION OWNERS 
 
Pursuant to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (“Commission”) October 27, 
2025, Notice Inviting Comments on the Secretary of Energy’s proposed advance notice of 
proposed rulemaking (“ANOPR”) requested under section 403 of the Department of Energy 
Reorganization Act1 on October 23, 2025, the Indicated PJM Transmission Owners2 respectfully 
submit the following comments.3   
I. 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  
In his letter accompanying the ANOPR, the Secretary of Energy emphasizes the need to 
connect large load customers, particularly data center customers, to the grid in a “timely, orderly, 
and non-discriminatory manner.”4  The Indicated PJM TOs appreciate the importance of timely 
 
1 42 U.S.C. § 7173. 
2 This filing is prepared on behalf of the following PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (“PJM”) Transmission 
Owners: The Dayton Power and Light Company d/b/a AES Ohio (“AES Ohio”); Duke Energy Corporation 
on  behalf of its affiliates Duke Energy Ohio, Inc., Duke Energy Kentucky, Inc., and Duke Energy Business  
Services LLC; Exelon Corporation on behalf of its affiliates Atlantic City Electric Company, Baltimore 
Gas and Electric Company, Commonwealth Edison Company, Commonwealth Edison Company of 
Indiana, Inc., Delmarva Power & Light Company, PECO Energy Company (“PECO”), and Potomac 
Electric Power Company; FirstEnergy Service Company, on behalf of its affiliates American Transmission 
Systems, Incorporated,  Jersey Central Power & Light Company, Mid-Atlantic Interstate Transmission 
LLC, The Potomac Edison Company, Monongahela Power Company, Keystone Appalachian Transmission 
Company, and Trans-Allegheny Interstate Line Company; PPL Electric Utilities Corporation; and 
Rockland Electric Company (together, the “Indicated PJM TOs”). 
3 Several of the Indicated PJM TOs are separately submitting company specific comments and participating 
in other sets of comments, thereby, the Commission should consider this submission alongside and in 
addition to the other comments submitted by the companies participating herein. 
4 Secretary of Energy’s Letter to the Commissioners of FERC, at 1 (Oct. 23, 2025) (“Secretary’s Letter”). 

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
 
integration of data center customers.  As transmission-owning utilities operating in a number of 
the most popular locations for data center development in the country, the Indicated PJM TOs are 
at the forefront of efforts to efficiently and cost-effectively interconnect data centers and similar 
large load customers.  At the same time, the Indicated PJM TOs continue to invest in the 
transmission system, ensure system reliability, and protect other retail customers from unjustified 
cost consequences and other potential adverse outcomes.  To that end, the Indicated PJM TOs have 
been working with PJM, state regulators, large load customers, and other stakeholders to develop 
mechanisms to meet the challenges associated with the enormous increase in data center-driven 
load demand.  As a result, the Indicated PJM TOs have a unique perspective on what reforms are 
likely to work to accomplish the Secretary of Energy’s goals and what will not work—at least in 
the diverse PJM region. 
Based on their experience in 14 different jurisdictions, the Indicated PJM TOs agree that 
the Commission can and should play a role in ensuring the timely, orderly, and properly cost 
allocated interconnection of large data center loads.  However, to not delay achievement of these 
goals, it is important that any Commission action be appropriately targeted and respect existing 
paradigms and precedent regarding cost-allocation, federal and state jurisdiction, and protecting 
reliability. In particular, the Commission should ensure that any rules it adopts will work in 
harmony with efforts already well underway to effectively integrate large load customers, inclusive 
of data center customers, while protecting existing retail customers.   
In this spirit, the Indicated PJM TOs offer comments on a number of the principles 
proposed in the ANOPR, including the following: 
 The Commission should limit the scope of any rule to data center facilities 200 MW or 
greater.  A 20 MW threshold as tentatively proposed in the ANOPR will sweep in 
numerous load customers for which the ANOPR was not designed.  A 20 MW threshold 
would  work at cross purposes to the efficiency goals underlying the ANOPR, create 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
 
unnecessary obstacles for non-data center loads, and risk undermining the 
Administration’s objective to increase domestic manufacturing. 
 
 Costs of transmission network upgrades triggered by interconnection of large load 
customers should, by default, be rolled into transmission rates consistent with 
longstanding Commission precedent on the treatment of integrated transmission 
facilities, rather than directly assigned to individual customers.  Rolled-in rate treatment 
will promote more efficient and timely large load interconnection by avoiding cost 
allocation and jurisdictional disputes, as well as ensuring that all load customers 
continue to contribute their fair share of the benefits of an integrated transmission 
network.  Additionally, transmission utilities such as the Indicated PJM TOs have 
already been successfully collaborating with state regulators, electric distribution 
companies, load serving entities, and data center customers to implement mechanisms 
to protect other retail customers from unfairly subsidizing data center interconnections.  
The Commission should bolster those efforts with an even-handed, across-the-board 
wholesale cost allocation to give the states a clean slate upon which to make retail rate 
determinations. 
 
 Regardless of how the Commission decides to allocate the costs of network upgrades, 
it must consider how the effect of its action or inaction affects all customers—not just 
large load customers. In addition to considering how the Commission’s action in this 
proceeding may affect all customers, the Commission must account for the financial 
integrity of the electric utilities it regulates by ensuring that transmission owners are 
permitted to earn a reasonable return on such facilities.  Failing to do so would chill 
necessary capital investment and threaten the goals of the ANOPR, as well as other 
Administration goals regarding the need for additional transmission infrastructure.  It 
would be contrary to law and practically untenable for transmission owners to 
construct, operate, and maintain these facilities, while taking on the associated risks, 
without the facilities going into the transmission owners’ rate base on which they are 
allowed to earn a reasonable return.   
 
 Large load customers should not have an option to build transmission upgrades.  Large 
load customers are not electric utilities, and do not possess the expertise and knowledge 
associated with developing and constructing transmission upgrades.  Nor do they have 
a legal obligation to ensure reliability.  The ANOPR’s goal of greater efficiency can 
best be met by having transmission-owning utilities, which are statutorily required to 
provide a public service, continue to develop and to construct upgrades necessary to 
accommodate load customers. 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
 
II. 
COMMENTS 
 
A. 
The Definition of “Large Loads” Must Be Appropriately Tailored to Meet the 
 
 
Goals of the ANOPR and to Avoid Adverse Consequences to Other Customers 
 
 
and U.S. Economic Priorities. 
 
The ANOPR tentatively proposes that standardized interconnection procedures and 
agreements for large load should apply to loads of 20 MW or more, based on the threshold adopted 
by the Commission for distinguishing between “large” and “small” generators in the 
interconnection context.  Generator interconnections and large load interconnections are not 
analogous, however.  As applied to large load customers, a threshold of 20 MW is much too low 
given the ANOPR’s particular focus on data centers, and would both undermine the expressed 
goals of the ANOPR and impose significant costs and other burdens on traditional industrial and 
commercial load customers.  The Indicated PJM TOs propose a two-tier threshold: (1) a MW 
threshold no lower than 200 MW, and (2) expressly limiting the application of any rule adopted 
by the Commission only to data center facilities, i.e. facilities that primarily utilize energy-
consuming information equipment, as opposed to other types of large load customers.5   
The ANOPR is primarily aimed at data center load, and the typical data center producing 
that load is far larger than 20 MW.  Data centers contain energy-consuming information 
technology equipment that requires cooling and air management equipment—all of which use 
significant amounts of power.  The tech industry suggests that the average data center contains up 
to 5,000 servers and that hyperscale data centers contain even more.6  According to a 2024 IBM 
 
5 The Indicated PJM TOs use the terms data centers and large load interchangeably throughout this 
document.  As discussed in this section, the Indicated PJM TOs believe that any large load interconnection 
procedures adopted by the Commission should be limited to data center customers.   As such, references to 
“large load” should not be read to suggest that the Indicated PJM TOs concur that it is appropriate to apply 
standardized interconnection procedures to other types of load customers. 
6 See IBM, What is a hyperscale data center?, https://www.ibm.com/think/topics/hyperscale-data-center 
(last visited, Nov. 18, 2025). 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
 
study, on average, 5,000 data center servers require approximately 100 MW of power capacity.7  
Similarly, a 2024 Electric Power Research Institute report explained that new hyperscale data 
centers typically possess power capacities of 100 MW to 1,000 MW each, which is “roughly 
equivalent to the load from 80,000 to 800,000 homes.”8  Moreover, data centers have seen marked 
growth over the past decade-plus, getting larger and housing more power-intensive, higher-density 
servers.  This has driven a massive increase in power consumption needs.  While 10 years ago, a 
20-30 MW data center was considered large, today 200 MW-plus facilities are typical.9   
Also, the main driver of the increase in data center load is for AI-capable facilities, as these 
facilities must provide the high computational power and power density required by AI 
workloads.10  One recent analysis of projects found that, in a “midrange” scenario, AI-ready data 
center capacity needs will rise at an average rate of 33 percent a year between 2023 and 2030, with 
70 percent of total demand for data center capacity by 2030 being for data centers equipped to host 
advanced-AI workloads.11  This same analysis concludes that by 2030, 60 to 65 percent of AI 
workloads in both Europe and the United States will be hosted by so-called “hyperscalers” due to 
the capacity required to run large foundational models developed in-house, such as Google’s 
Gemini, or to host models developed by AI companies, such as OpenAI’s ChatGPT.12 
 
7 Id. 
8 EPRI, Powering Intelligence: Analyzing Intelligence and Data Center Energy Consumption, (May 28, 
2024),https://www.epri.com/research/products/3002028905 at 2. 
9 McKinsey & Company, AI power: Expanding data center capacity to meet growing demand, (Oct. 29, 
2024),https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/technology-media-and-telecommunications/our-insights/ai-
power-expanding-data-center-capacity-to-meet-growing-demand. 
10 Id. 
11 Id. 
12 Id. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
 
In sum, typical data center loads already significantly exceed 20 MW and are anticipated 
to continue to increase substantially over the next several years.  The Commission should choose 
a MW threshold value on the higher end of the current range of data center sizes so that it accounts 
for the trend towards larger-scale data centers.13  Based on these trends, the MW threshold for 
applying any Commission-adopted procedures relating to large load interconnections should be no 
less than 200 MW.  Also, because large load additions are primarily made up of data center 
facilities, any rule adopted by the Commission should be limited to data center facilities.  This 
distinction is not merely academic; it is critically important to properly define the scope of any 
Commission-adopted procedures at the outset both to achieve the goals of the ANOPR and to avoid 
unintended adverse consequences to other customers.    
In the Secretary of Energy’s letter accompanying the ANOPR, the Secretary points to the 
goal of driving American AI innovation, and the need to ensure that substantial transmission 
investment is done “efficiently, fairly and expeditiously.”14  A threshold that is too low, and one 
that fails to distinguish between data centers and other load customers, will undermine these 
objectives.  A 20 MW threshold would sweep in a multitude of load customers with a highly 
diverse set of characteristics, including manufacturing facilities, commercial businesses, and 
municipal load-serving entities.  In many cases, the needs of these customers will not align with 
the needs of large data centers.  Lumping all of these customers together runs the risk of creating 
new and unnecessarily large queues of customers, each of which will need to be processed, studied, 
and entered into appropriate agreements.  One of the key lessons learned over the last twenty years 
 
13 It would be less disruptive for the Commission to adopt a lower threshold in the future if, for some reason, 
200 MW proves to be too high to accomplish the goals of the ANOPR, as opposed to adopting a threshold 
that is too low from the outset, which could lead to congested load request processing. 
14 Secretary’s Letter at 2. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
 
is that large, clogged queues are anathema to fast and efficient interconnections.15  This concern is 
particularly acute in PJM, which has experienced exponential growth in data center loads in areas 
such as “data center alley” in Northern Virginia.   
Moreover, different types of load customers have different operational attributes.  Studying 
all of these types of customers in a single queue will create unnecessary complexity and reduce 
opportunities for streamlining and other efficiencies.  Interconnection needs can also vary among 
data center customers, particularly with respect to smaller customers versus hyperscalers. A one-
size-fits-all approach risks undermining the collaborative processes by which the Indicated PJM 
TOs have been able to work with customers of varying sizes and configurations to determine how 
best to interconnect new facilities. If the Commission wishes to promote timely interconnections, 
and advance AI innovation, it should limit the scope of any pro forma procedures to the facilities 
that will benefit most from those procedures both now and in the immediate future: large data 
centers.  Otherwise, any procedures that the Commission adopts may end up simply creating more 
hurdles for both transmission owners and data center customers at a time when data center-related 
challenges are only going to increase for all participants. 
A 20 MW or similarly low threshold that applies to all load customers, as opposed to being 
limited to data center facilities, also risks creating unnecessary impediments to non-data center 
loads, such as traditional industrial and commercial customers.  In his letter to the Commission, 
 
15 See, e.g., Mark Jaffe, Grid operators across the country facing multi-year backlog in new generation 
connections, EUCI.com (May 13, 2025), https://www.euci.com/grid-operators-across-the-country-facing-
multi-year-backlog-in-new-generation-connections/; S&P Global, Interconnection queues show swelling 
volume but FERC reforms slowly taking hold (May 15, 2024), https//www.spglobal.com/market-
intelligence/en/news-insights/research/interconnection-queues-show-swelling-volume-but-ferc-reforms-
slowly-taking-hold; Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Grid connection backlog grows by 30% in 
2023, 
dominated 
by 
requests 
for 
solar, 
wind, 
and 
energy 
storage 
(Apr. 
10, 
2024), 
https://emp.lbl.gov/news/grid-connection-backlog-grows-30-2023-dominated-requests-solar-wind-and-
energy-storage. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 
 
the Secretary of Energy notes that one of the Administration’s priorities is revitalizing domestic 
manufacturing.  The Indicated PJM TOs strongly support this goal.  The large-scale buildout of 
the electric system has, for decades, driven innovation and helped create new types of industrial 
processes.  This continues today, with manufacturing centers and other large load customers using 
more and more electricity.16  If the country is going to realize the challenge of preserving and 
expanding domestic manufacturing, these traditional load customers must not fall victim to 
discriminatory or other unreasonable treatment.   
As noted above, the circumstances and needs of large data center customers are separate 
and apart from that of traditional large load customers.  These other customers may, for example, 
have different tolerances for interconnection cost exposure or federal regulatory entanglements.  
Thus, the Indicated PJM TOs caution the Commission against applying procedures best suited for 
large data center customers to a broad swathe of other load customers.17  A broadly applicable set 
of new federal regulations, particularly ones that may involve significant up-front funding 
obligations, could end up deterring more traditional industrial and commercial customers from 
choosing the most efficient interconnection option, or worse, choosing not to locate in the United 
States at all.  A significantly expanded interconnection process that sweeps in all load above 20 
MW will also lead to delays and a lack of uniformity with respect to existing interconnection 
studies, undermining the efficacy of the current studies and procedures.  Introducing variations in 
 
16  
U.S. Energy Industry Association Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey, (Sept. 24, 2025), 
https://www.eia.gov/consumption/manufacturing/. 
17 Some of these other large load power users include: (i) primary metal producers (iron, steel, and 
aluminum processes); (ii) chemical manufacturers (ammonia, chlorine, and petrochemical inter-mediaries); 
(iii) pulp and paper mills; (iv) petroleum refineries; (v) cement and glass manufacturers; (vi) transportation 
manufacturers including, large automotive manufacturing plants as well as aerospace products and parts 
manufacturing; (vii) year-round commercial indoor agricultural growing facilities; (viii) animal 
slaughterhouses and processing for meat consumption; and (ix) large hospitals and healthcare complexes.   

--- PAGE 9 ---
9 
 
the study process creates, at best, more opportunity for variations in the interconnection process, 
and at worst, incentives that undermine existing North American Electric Reliability Corporation 
(“NERC”) transmission planning performance standards.18 
In addition to choosing an appropriate threshold, the Commission should also take into 
account data center load ramp periods.  Many data centers’ initial loads are significantly lower 
when they first enter commercial operation, but following expansion and full potential of operation 
capacity, their demand increases to much higher levels.  If the Commission elects to adopt 
standardized procedures for large load data center interconnections, it could consider applying the 
chosen MW threshold to loads with requested ramps that exceed the megawatt threshold at any 
point in the data center’s first five years of expected operation.  This will ensure that data centers 
with relatively low initial load requirements when they enter service are not inappropriately 
exempted from applicable rules and procedures.  This will also have the benefit of preventing 
strategic and potentially anti-competitive gaming of load ramp values. 
B. 
The ANOPR’s Proposal to Require Allocating 100 Percent of Network 
Upgrade Costs to Large Load Customers Conflicts with the Commission’s 
Longstanding Cost Allocation Policies and Will Frustrate the ANOPR’s Goals 
of Efficient and Timely Interconnection. 
 
 
Any mechanism for allocating the costs of network upgrades driven by large load 
customers must balance a number of objectives, including protecting existing retail load 
customers, encouraging the timely and efficient interconnection of data centers, promoting 
investment in necessary transmission infrastructure, and ensuring the financial integrity of the 
utilities that will be responsible for constructing that infrastructure.  These objectives can best be 
achieved by the Commission recognizing rolled-in rate treatment as the default methodology for 
 
18 NERC, Reliability Standard TPL-001-5.1 – Transmission System Planning Performance Requirements 
(June 13, 2025), https://www.nerc.com/globalassets/standards/reliability-standards/tpl/tpl-001-5.1.pdf. 

--- PAGE 10 ---
10 
 
allocating the costs of network upgrades, even those that are precipitated by new large loads.19  
This approach will promote speed-to-power for data center customers by avoiding jurisdictional 
battles and other fights over cost allocation, and is fully consistent with robust protections for other 
load customers, which the Indicated PJM TOs have already been developing and implementing 
through tariffs and agreements for data center customers.  Under these models, data center 
customers are responsible for the costs of upgrades necessary to reach the utility’s system, 
including distribution system upgrades, as well as reasonable security and creditworthiness 
requirements.  Finally, regardless of whether the Commission elects to adopt rolled-in rate 
treatment or a direct assignment model for large load-driven network upgrades, it must ensure that 
such upgrades are recoverable in the transmission-owning utilities’ rate base on which they are 
permitted to earn a reasonable rate of return.  Doing so is vital to attracting sufficient investment 
in necessary transmission infrastructure as well as protecting the financial viability of the utilities 
the Commission regulates.  
1. 
Traditional Rolled-in Rate Treatment Best Accords with the ANOPR’s 
Goals of Promoting Rapid Delivery of Vitally Needed Data Centers. 
 
Given that a chief concern giving rise to the ANOPR is to facilitate expeditious 
construction and activation of data centers to catch up to widespread demand, a rolled-in cost 
allocation rather than a targeted imposition of costs to discrete customers is the optimal approach 
in most cases.20  Consistent with this objective, Commission policy has long favored rolled-in rate 
treatment for transmission network upgrades, absent special circumstances in which facilities are 
 
19 This approach is not meant to preclude transmission owners from proposing direct assignment of network 
upgrades to data center customers through state jurisdictional retail tariff design or other mechanisms. 
20 Certain of the Indicated PJM TOs are actively exploring ways to mitigate retail load customer costs and 
are, in some cases, entering into arrangements that contain direct assignment constructs for certain 
customers. 

--- PAGE 11 ---
11 
 
not integrated with the grid.21 The Commission has found that costs applicable to integrated 
transmission facilities that are necessary for the interconnection of a load customer but that also 
benefit the network as a whole and all of its customers are appropriately rolled into transmission 
rates.22  Rolled-in rate treatment is the Commission’s preferred cost allocation methodology for 
load-triggered network upgrades whether the load is large or small, and has consistently ruled that 
transmission facilities that are integrated into the transmission owner’s network are eligible for 
rolled-in rate treatment.23  These facilities benefit the entire transmission network and are not 
solely used by the large load customer.  There is no reason for the Commission to deviate from 
this approach when it comes to determining the default methodology for allocating the costs of 
network upgrades triggered by the interconnection of data center customers or other large loads.24  
Doing so will result in renewed disputes and litigation over cost allocation, resulting in delay and, 
in turn, jeopardizing the goal of efficient and timely interconnection of large load customers.   
The Commission has maintained a general policy preference for allocating transmission 
costs to all wholesale transmission customers rather than directly assigning those costs to 
individual customers, especially when the network upgrades benefit the broader grid or regional 
 
21 See Otter Tail Power Co., Opinion No. 93, 12 FERC ¶ 61,169, at 61,420 (1980); see also Idaho Power 
Co., Opinion No. 13, 3 FERC ¶ 61,108 (1978); Utah Power & Light Co., Opinion No. 220, 27 FERC ¶ 
61,258, reh’g denied, 28 FERC ¶ 61,088 (1984), aff’d sub nom. Sierra Pac. Power Co. v. FERC, 793 F.2d 
1086 (9th Cir. 1986); Niagara Mohawk Power Corp., Opinion No. 296, 42 FERC ¶ 61,143 (1988). 
22 See Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC, 168 FERC ¶ 61,190, at P 18 (2019) (citing Ne. Tex. Elec. Coop., 108 
FERC ¶ 61,084 (2004); Am. Elec. Power Serv. Corp., 44 FERC ¶ 61,206 (1988), reh’g denied, 45 FERC ¶ 
61,408 (1988), reh’g denied, 46 FERC ¶ 61,382 (1992)). 
23 Allegheny Power, 122 FERC ¶ 61,160 at P 29 (2008). 
24 The ANOPR confines its scope to interconnections “directly to transmission facilities”  and makes no 
mention of local distribution-related upgrades or distribution rates.  ANOPR at P 18.  Nevertheless, the 
Commission should make explicit that nothing in this rulemaking proceeding is intended to regulate local 
distribution facilities or require distribution rate bypass for large load customers.  Any other result would 
interfere with matters squarely reserved for state jurisdiction under the Federal Power Act.  16 U.S.C. § 
824(b).    

--- PAGE 12 ---
12 
 
reliability.  Over the years, the Commission has consistently found that transmission upgrades 
integrated with the larger network benefit the entire system, and therefore, network upgrade costs 
driven by large load customers should be rolled into transmission rates rather than directly assigned 
to a single customer.25  This principle is rooted in the Commission’s commitment to ensuring non-
discriminatory access to the transmission system and promoting efficient grid development.  As 
concerns about affordability continue to escalate, the importance of this principle only increases 
as it ensures that our national grid infrastructure is upgraded today in a cost-effective manner for 
not only the data centers of today but all load today and into the future. 
The Commission has broadly construed its policy in favor of rolled-in rate treatment.  For 
instance, the Commission has found that potential future conditions as well as present 
circumstances must be evaluated when determining whether a transmission facility is part of an 
integrated system.26  The expansion of the transmission system to accommodate large load data 
center customers represent both the present and future transmission system needs the Commission 
foresaw in these cases when it sustained rolled-in rate treatment as the just and reasonable 
approach.  The Commission has further held that “even remote facilities are part of the grid if they 
are merely the first step of what will eventually be a network loop,” explaining that “an integrated 
transmission grid is a cohesive network moving energy in bulk that is in a dynamic state of 
development.”27 
 
25 See Mansfield Mun.  Elec. Dep’t v. New England Power Co., 94 FERC ¶ 63,023, aff’d, Opinion No. 454, 
97 FERC ¶ 61,134 (2001), reh’g denied, Opinion No. 454-A, 98 FERC ¶ 61,115 (2002). 
26 Pinnacle West Capital Corp., 131 FERC ¶ 61,143, at P 42 (2010); Allegheny Power, 122 FERC ¶ 61,160, 
at P 23 (2008); Utah Power & Light Co., 24 FERC ¶ 63,108, at 65,176 (1983); see also Entergy Servs., 
Inc., 96 FERC ¶ 61,311, at 62,202 (2001). 
27 S. Cal. Edison Co., 100 FERC ¶ 61,219, at P 18 (2002). 

--- PAGE 13 ---
13 
 
The Commission has also required rolled-in rate treatment for customers taking service 
from transmission facilities classified at different voltage levels.  For instance, it has found that 
customers taking service from facilities operating at higher voltages also benefit from the 
transmission facilities operating at lower voltages.28  In another proceeding, the Commission found 
that rolled-in rate treatment for the costs of transmission facilities that operate at lower voltages is 
appropriate where the lower-voltage facilities are integrated and support the operation of higher 
voltage facilities.29  Moreover, the Commission has previously found that a transmission owner’s 
69-kV network in PJM is integrated with the networked transmission system, and thus, required 
the transmission owner to use rolled-in rate treatment for those facilities.30   
The Commission should retain the existing rolled-in rate approach as the default 
methodology for all load customers regardless of size, while recognizing the need for flexibility in 
individual circumstances.31  Expanding and maintaining the transmission network based on 
anticipated loads in a manner that benefits all load customers is the hallmark of prudent and 
effective transmission planning, and this is no less true when it comes to network upgrades 
triggered by data centers or other large load customers.  Data centers or other large load customers 
are generally not the sole beneficiaries of network upgrades, even when the triggering cause of 
those upgrades is the interconnection of new loads.  As the Commission has recognized, attempting 
 
28 The Potomac Edison Co., 20 FERC ¶ 63,060 (1982), aff’d, Opinion No. 163, 23 FERC ¶ 61,106 (1983). 
29 Utah Power & Light Co., Opinion No. 220, 27 FERC ¶ 61,258 (this case is especially applicable where 
lower-voltage facilities and higher-voltage facilities rely on the lower-voltage facilities when transmission 
outages occur). 
30 Buckeye Power, Inc. v. Am. Transmission Sys. Inc., Opinion No. 533, 148 FERC ¶ 61,174 (2014). 
31 The Indicated PJM TOs recognize that large load interconnections may also require customer-specific, 
non-integrated transmission upgrades, and that such upgrades may be appropriate for direct assignment to 
individual large load customers. 

--- PAGE 14 ---
14 
 
to parcel out the transmission network into discrete chunks allocated to specific customers fails to 
capture the benefits a cohesive, integrated system provides to all users.32 
Retaining the Commission’s rolled-in rate policy ensures that large load customers pay for 
the benefits they receive from the integrated transmission system over the long term.  The ANOPR 
does not demonstrate any special circumstances associated with large load customers, or otherwise 
provide a rationale justifying deviation from the Commission’s rolled-in rate policy.  Therefore, 
the just and reasonable approach is to determine that network upgrade costs driven by the 
interconnection of large load data center customers shall be allocated and shared amongst all load 
in accordance with the Commission’s rolled-in rate policy.  
Retaining the rolled-in rate policy will also promote the ANOPR’s goals of efficient and 
timely interconnection.  As the Commission is aware, issues involving the appropriate cost 
allocation of network upgrades have spawned significant controversy and litigation in the context 
of generator interconnection requests.33  Moreover, generators and load customers are not the 
same.  If the Commission were to copy and paste its Order No. 2003 cost allocation methodology 
used for generation facility interconnections as the model to be used by large load interconnections, 
it will inevitably lead to litigation over network upgrade cost allocation for years to come, 
particularly given that data centers and generators are different types of customers with different 
 
32  Ne. Tex. Elec. Coop., Inc., 108 FERC ¶ 61,084, at P 47. 
33 See e.g., Nat’l Ass’n of Regul. Util. Comm’rs v. FERC, 475 F.3d 1277 (D.C. Cir. 2007); Midwest ISO 
Transmission Owners v. FERC, 373 F.3d 1361 (D.C. Cir. 2004); Midwest Indep. Transmission Sys. 
Operator, Inc., 129 FERC ¶ 61,060, at P 1 (2009); Ameren Servs. Co. v. FERC, 880 F.3d 571 (D.C. Cir. 
2018); Am. Clean Power Ass’n v. FERC, 54 F.4th 722, 725 (D.C. Cir. 2022); PPL Elec. Utils. Corp., 177 
FERC ¶ 61,123 (2021); Central Hudson Gas & Elec. Corp. v. N.Y. Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 176 FERC 
¶ 61,149 (2021); Central Hudson Gas & Elec. Corp. v. FERC, 138 F.4th 531 (D.C. Cir. 2025); Midcontinent 
Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 187 FERC ¶ 61,170 (2024); Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 180 FERC ¶ 61,139 (2022); 
Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 181 FERC ¶ 61,096 (2022); Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 183 FERC ¶ 61,015 (2023); 
RENEW Ne., Inc. v. ISO New England Inc., 189 FERC ¶ 61,216 (2024); RWE Clean Energy, LLC v. PJM 
Interconnection, L.L.C., Complaint, Docket No. EL26-7-000 (filed Oct. 27, 2025).  

--- PAGE 15 ---
15 
 
needs and impacts on the transmission system.  This will cast regulatory uncertainty over data 
center interconnections at precisely the time when predictability and certainty are most needed. 
Conversely, incorporating large load data centers into the pool of customers paying for 
utility infrastructure that serves not just them, but all load, will ultimately drive rates down for all 
customers, and thereby make the national grid more affordable for all.  The direct assignment of 
network upgrades may have appeal in the near term, but in the long term, it would effectively 
relieve large load from contributing to the continued development and maintenance of the 
transmission system, or any other part of the transmission system they are using.  Over time, this 
means that large loads (that may even grow at a certain point of interconnection) would contribute 
less and less (as network upgrades depreciate) until they are contributing nothing at all to the 
network they continue to use. 
However, if the Commission instead, consistent with its precedent, applies its tried and true 
rolled-in rate treatment policy as the default allocation for network upgrade costs driven by large 
load customers, it will provide certainty and stability for all customers and avoid unnecessary 
delays caused by cost allocation fights.  Moreover, direct assignment of network upgrade costs to 
large load customers could encourage location shopping and speculative behavior, to the detriment 
of efficiency and fairness, and with further sacrifice owing to the resultant need for restudies.  For 
these reasons, rolled-in rate treatment best harmonizes with the ANOPR’s goals of fast, efficient, 
and fair interconnection of large load data center customers.   
2. 
Transmission Owners and Electric Distribution Companies in PJM 
and Across the Nation Are Already Implementing Effective 
Mechanisms To Protect Other Load Customers from Impacts of Large 
Load Interconnections.   
 
Recent experience across multiple jurisdictions demonstrates that utilities, system 
operators, state and federal regulators, and data center customers can, and have, worked together 

--- PAGE 16 ---
16 
 
effectively to design interconnection and rate mechanisms that uphold cost-causation principles 
while protecting other customers. Through collaborative tariff development, innovative contract 
structures, and coordinated state–utility review processes, these stakeholders have shown that rapid 
data center load growth can be accommodated without unfairly shifting the cost of new 
infrastructure to other retail customers.   
The success of the models that are being developed provide a strong foundation for the 
Commission to build upon while preserving the flexibility to accommodate specific regional, state, 
and customer circumstances.  On the other hand, requiring direct assignment to large load 
customers of all transmission upgrade costs associated with large load interconnections will 
undercut the significant progress that utilities and system operators throughout the country, 
including the Indicated PJM TOs, have made in working with state regulators and data center 
customers to implement mechanisms that balance cost allocation principles with appropriate 
protections to other retail customers.   
One mechanism that has been successfully utilized is agreements between utilities and 
large load customers. These agreements typically incorporate a comprehensive package of terms 
designed to protect retail customers.  Recent examples in PJM include the PECO Transmission 
Security Agreement (“TSA”) and the Dayton Power and Light Company d/b/a AES Ohio 
Construction Service Agreement (“CSA”).34  Numerous other utilities are working to develop 
similar types of agreements. 
These agreements take various forms, generally including provisions that allocate the costs 
and/or financial risks associated with the interconnection of and service to data center 
 
34 PECO Energy Company, TSA Filing, Docket No. ER25-3492-000 (filed Sept. 23, 2025); Dayton Power 
and Light Company d/b/a AES Ohio, CSA Filing, Docket No. ER25-192-000 (filed Oct. 23, 2024). 

--- PAGE 17 ---
17 
 
developments, including defined load and phasing schedules.35  These schedules set the anticipated 
total load pursuant to which the data center is expected to operate.  Such provisions protect existing 
retail customers against the risk of cost shifts if load development lags, scales down, or fails to 
enter service.  These types of agreements also impose robust credit support obligations on the data 
center customer throughout the term of the agreement.  For instance, under the PECO TSA, the 
customer must provide a parent guarantee or irrevocable letter of credit sufficient to cover its 
committed revenue contribution, with PECO authorized to draw on that security to recover unpaid 
costs.36  The AES Ohio CSA likewise requires the customer to post a guaranty equal to the 
estimated network upgrade costs, declining proportionally each year for ten years after the 
commercial operation date.37  These financial backstops increase the likelihood that electric 
infrastructure is developed only for viable projects, while providing rate stability and protections 
for other customers from exposure to project default or early termination.  The agreements also 
establish a minimum or “committed revenue contribution” that the customer must pay annually, 
regardless of its actual usage.  If the data center customer’s usage falls short of its anticipated usage 
(with some flexibility allowed), the customer must make shortfall payments equal to the difference 
between the committed and actual revenue contributions.38  
Regulators and utilities across multiple jurisdictions have also developed tariff-based 
approaches to ensuring that large load interconnections do not unfairly impact existing retail 
customers.  These new tariffs share common features, including minimum-take or committed-
revenue requirements, load development schedules, enhanced financial assurance measures, 
 
35 PECO TSA at Section 3 and Exhibit B; AES Ohio CSA at Section 3 and Exhibit B. 
36 PECO Transmittal at 5. 
37 AES Ohio Transmittal at 6. 
38 PECO Transmittal at 6-7, 10-11; AES Ohio Transmittal at 8-9. 

--- PAGE 18 ---
18 
 
shortfall/make-whole payments, early-termination charges, and clearer rules distinguishing 
distribution versus transmission cost responsibility. 
The Public Utilities Commission of Ohio’s recent adoption of a data-center specific tariff 
(Schedule DCT) for AEP-Ohio illustrates this model.  The approved tariff applies rigorous 
financial and minimum-usage conditions for new data center loads and is intended to lift a prior 
moratorium on new service while protecting existing customers from speculative project risk.39  
Indiana Michigan Power Company (“I&M”) is another example of a utility that has developed a 
data center-specific tariff.  I&M’s settlement and tariff modification, approved by the Indiana 
Utility Regulatory Commission, revises its industrial/large-load pricing to reflect minimum 
demand thresholds, aggregated-site rules, and other protections negotiated with stakeholders.40   It 
is important to preserve a flexible construct so that transmission owners and large load customers 
may enter into bilateral agreements like these on an individual case-by-case basis depending on 
the customer’s commercial needs.  Adaptability to a customer’s unique needs is key in developing 
the appropriate menu of service.  The Commission should avoid the temptation to craft a one-size-
fits-all approach, which may limit the ability of transmission owners to best serve a variety of large 
load customers. 
Additionally, PJM is undertaking efforts to prepare the grid for the influx of large load data 
center customers.  On September 15, 2025, PJM initiated an accelerated Critical Issue Fast Path 
stakeholder process to determine solutions to resource adequacy challenges that are evident as 
more large loads plan to consume power from the system.  PJM is considering several stakeholder 
 
39 AEP Ohio, Data Center Tariff, https://www.aepohio.com/company/about/rates/data-center-tariff/ (last 
visited, Nov. 18, 2025). 
40 Indiana Michigan Power Company, In the Matter of the Verified Petition of Indiana Michigan Power 
Company for Approval of Modifications to its Industrial Power Tariff – Tariff I.P., Cause No. 46097 
(Indiana Util. Regul. Comm’n Feb. 19, 2025). 

--- PAGE 19 ---
19 
 
proposals that include the implementation of financial security requirements for large load 
customers to help address the capacity requirements of their facilities.41  This effort is highlighted 
in an October 17, 2025, letter sent by PJM’s CEO to Commissioner David Rosner.42 
The efforts discussed above demonstrate that utilities and large load customers can 
successfully implement arrangements that internalize risk with the project proponent and preserve 
fairness for existing customers, while ensuring that needed transmission and interconnection 
infrastructure is developed to allow data centers and other large load customers to obtain reliable 
power supply on a timely basis.  Data center customers will, under these models, be responsible 
for the costs of facilities necessary to reach the utility’s system, as well as reasonable security and 
creditworthiness requirements, but will not be directly assigned the cost of upgrades to the 
integrated network.  Moreover, these efforts will better promote speed-to-power compared to 
assigning the full costs of network upgrades to large load customers.  This is because the service 
agreements described help reduce up-front financial commitments, and avoid any associated 
disputes, in favor of long-term service and demand obligations.  They also are intended to reduce 
customer uncertainty about the magnitude of cost responsibility, a factor that in the context of 
generator interconnection has led to inefficiencies such as location shopping, speculative queue 
behavior, and withdrawals that ultimately require time-consuming restudies.  In short, the goals of 
the ANOPR would best be served by allowing regulators, utilities, and large load customers to 
continue to develop and implement appropriate retail mechanisms to ensure adequate protections 
 
41PJM Inside Lines, PJM Discusses Large Load Planning at FERC Annual Reliability Technical 
Conference (Oct. 23, 2025), https://insidelines.pjm.com/pjm-discusses-large-load-planning-at-ferc-annual-
reliability-technical-conference/. 
42 Reliability Technical Conference, Docket No. AD25-8-000, Pre-Technical Conference Remarks of PJM 
Vice President Jason Connell (Oct. 20, 2025) – Attached Oct. 17 Letter from PJM CEO, Manu Asthana to 
Chairman of FERC, David Rosner. 

--- PAGE 20 ---
20 
 
for retail customers rather than enforcing a one-size-fits-all cost allocation rule that clashes with 
longstanding Commission policy.   
Regardless of how the Commission acts on this and other issues, during the pendency of 
this rulemaking, nothing should prevent utilities, state regulators, and data center/large load 
customers from continuing to develop and implement these and other mechanisms to interconnect 
data centers and other large load customers, nor discourage public utilities from making filings 
with the Commission to address these issues.43   
3. 
Mandating Direct Assignment of Network Upgrade Costs to Large 
Load Customers Can Result in Higher Overall Costs to Other Retail 
Customers.  
 
As discussed above, it is not necessary to directly assign the costs of network upgrades 
associated with large load interconnections to protect other retail customers from unfairly 
subsidizing those large loads.  Moreover, the direct assignment of such costs, as opposed to 
utilizing rolled-in rate treatment, may result in higher costs to retail customers under certain 
circumstances.  This is because interconnecting data centers, particularly hyperscale facilities, adds 
significant amounts of additional load to the system.  In the PJM region these loads, like all end-
use customers, are ultimately responsible for paying the costs of network transmission upgrades 
reflected in zonal transmission rates based on their retail demand.  Thus, including large load 
customers in the pool of customers that are ultimately allocated rolled-in rates for network 
upgrades can actually drive down transmission costs to other retail customers because they reduce 
the proportion of costs assigned to those other customers.   
If, however, data center customers are directly assigned the costs of network upgrades, the 
result will almost certainly be higher overall costs to other load customers.  This problem will 
 
43 ANOPR at P 32. 

--- PAGE 21 ---
21 
 
exacerbate as more data centers interconnect and the integrated transmission system is further 
fragmented.  The result will be a balkanized network where an increasingly small percentage of 
transmission costs are recovered from all customers, including data center customers, on a rolled-
in basis.  This two-tier system would be neither fair nor efficient, particularly for existing retail 
customers.  Large load customers, just like any other load customers, should bear their share of 
the full embedded costs of the system, recognizing that all customers enjoy the benefits associated 
with an integrated transmission system.  Any other result would be unjust, unreasonable, and 
unduly discriminatory. 
Altogether, the cost allocation proposal included in the ANOPR is unclear and 
undeveloped.  That aside, the proposals set forth herein by the Indicated PJM TOs will protect 
customers now and into the future, if accepted by the Commission.  As mentioned previously, 
there are certain circumstances, on a case-by-case basis when a public utility and customer may 
agree on a limited direct assignment approach for network upgrade costs.44  That limited 
circumstance, however, should be the exception rather than the rule.  It is paramount that the 
Commission declines to mandate transmission owners to directly assign the costs of network 
upgrades to a large load customer. 
C. 
Transmission Owners Must Be Adequately Compensated for Owning and 
Operating Network Upgrades. 
 
For all the reasons described above, the Commission should eschew requiring the direct 
assignment of network upgrades to large load customers in favor of continuing its longstanding 
policy in favor of rolled-in rate treatment as the default approach.  The Indicated PJM TOs 
 
44 The Indicated PJM TOs support direct assignment treatment for the costs of interconnection facilities on 
the customer-side of the point of interconnection as those costs do not benefit the broader transmission 
network and thus are appropriately borne by the large load customer under cost-causation principles. 

--- PAGE 22 ---
22 
 
recognize that the ANOPR’s cost allocation proposal is not yet developed.  However, if the 
Commission pursues a direct assignment approach, and assuming arguendo that it has the authority 
to require such direct assignments, then any such rule must clearly specify that transmission 
owners will be permitted to earn a reasonable return on their investments for these network 
upgrades. The Commission must ensure rates and recovery mechanisms permit transmission 
owners to finance the work to connect large load data center customers on reasonable terms 
consistent with Hope and Bluefield.  Without the opportunity to attract capital to invest in network 
upgrades necessary to electrifying large load data centers construction of transmission 
infrastructure to win the AI race will simply not occur.    
1. 
Utility Returns Must Be Commensurate with Risk and Sufficient To 
Maintain Financial Integrity. 
 
Under traditional cost-of-service ratemaking, regulated utilities invest capital to build 
transmission facilities to serve customers and assume the obligation to provide safe and reliable 
services to those customers at a reasonable cost.  In exchange, utilities are provided an opportunity 
to recover their prudently incurred costs and to earn a reasonable return on their investment for 
their shareholders.  A key feature of this regulatory compact is the equitable balancing of 
shareholders’ and ratepayers’ interests. 
Longstanding precedent recognizes that transmission owners must be adequately 
compensated for owning and operating all transmission facilities, including network upgrades 
associated with large load data center interconnections.  This is a requirement of the Constitution 
of the United States of America (“Constitution”) that is captured in the Federal Power Act (“FPA”) 

--- PAGE 23 ---
23 
 
and the cases interpreting the requirements of the FPA.45  Under Hope, rates must, at a minimum, 
“enable the company to operate successfully, to maintain its financial integrity, to attract capital, 
and to compensate its investors for the risks assumed.”46  In Ameren, the U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the District of Columbia expressed concern that transmission owners were required to own and 
operate network upgrades with no profit or compensation.47  On remand, the Commission agreed, 
finding that network upgrades present risks and the affected transmission owners should be 
compensated for those risks.48   
The same reasoning should apply in this proceeding.  If transmission owners are compelled 
to operate large expansions to the transmission system without a commensurate return, then their 
risk profile diverges materially from the proxy group underpinning the Commission’s return on 
equity (“ROE”) determinations.  Absent safeguards, the allowed return would fall below the 
constitutional standard of comparability.   Put another way, denying transmission utilities the 
ability to earn a return on a significant portion of their overall investment is contrary to the 
fundamental regulatory compact pursuant to which investor and consumer interests are to be 
balanced; the utility has an obligation to serve, and in turn receives a stable level of earnings in 
return.49   
 
45 FPC v. Hope Nat. Gas Co., 320 U.S. 591, 603 (1944) (“Hope”); Ameren Servs. Co. v. FERC, 880 F.3d 
571, 581 (D.C. Cir. 2018) (“Ameren”); Farmers Union Cent. Exch., Inc. v. FERC, 734 F.2d 1486, 1515 
(D.C. Cir. 1984). 
46 Hope, 320 U.S. at 605. 
47 Ameren, 880 F.3d at 583-85. 
48 Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 164 FERC ¶ 61,158 at P 31 (2018), reh’g order, 169 FERC ¶ 
61,233 at P 39 (2019). 
49 See Jersey Cent. Power & Light Co. v. FERC, 810 F.2d 1168, 1189 (D.C. Cir. 1987) (Starr, J., concurring) 
(indicating that as part of the regulatory compact, ratepayers are provided universal service and protection 
against monopolistic profits, and utility investors receive “a level of stability in earnings and value less 
likely to be attained in the unregulated or moderately regulated sector”); see also Hope, 320 U.S. at 603. 

--- PAGE 24 ---
24 
 
2.  
The Commission Should Not Create Policy that Exposes Transmission 
Owners to Asymmetric Risks with No Attendant Compensation. 
 
Transmission owners face significant risks associated with owning, operating, and 
maintaining interconnection-related network upgrades, regardless of whether those upgrades relate 
to generator or load interconnections.  However, the Commission has indicated that it may not be 
just and reasonable for transmission owners to elect to earn a return on generator-related network 
upgrades.50  If the Commission were to extend such treatment to network upgrades to serve large 
load interconnections, it would likewise produce asymmetrical risk and, without the ability to earn 
a reasonable return on that investment, there would be no attendant compensation for transmission 
owners.  The Indicated PJM TOs face both operational (i.e., business) and financial risk associated 
with network upgrades for generator interconnection and have demonstrated through extensive 
comments in previous Commission proceedings that the risks from owning and operating network 
upgrades are both significant and growing.51 
 
50 See Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Order to Show Cause, 187 FERC ¶ 61,170 at P 1 (2024) (finding 
that existing ISO and RTO tariffs “appear to be unjust, unreasonable, and unduly discriminatory or 
preferential” because they include provisions for transmission owners to unilaterally elect to fund generator 
interconnection-related network upgrades and recover those costs through a charge that provides a return 
on and of such costs from interconnection customers). 
51 For example, in support of their June 30, 2021 filing in Docket No. ER21-2282, the PJM TOs submitted 
the affidavit of Mr. David W. Weaver, Vice President of Transmission Strategy with Exelon Corporation, 
wherein Mr. Weaver discussed the fact that transmission owners bear significant risks associated with 
installing, owning and operating network upgrades, including (1) operational and safety risks, (2) reliability 
and cybersecurity compliance risks; (3) environmental risks; (4) weather and climate risks; and (5) outage 
coordination risks.  See PPL Elec. Utils. Corp., Docket No. ER21-2282-000, Affidavit of David W. Weaver, 
P.E., Vice President of Transmission Strategy of Exelon (filed June 30, 2021), at PP 7, 11-36.  
The supporting testimony of Ms. Ellen Lapson similarly discussed how the PJM Transmission Owners face 
an increasing level of uncompensated risk as more network upgrades are added to the transmission system.  
Ms. Lapson’s testimony further explained how the growing number of network upgrades also creates 
financial risk— that is, because transmission owners receive no compensation for network upgrades, the 
increasing number of network upgrades causes a proportional reduction in the amount of compensation that 
the PJM Transmission Owners receive for their other transmission facilities.  See PPL Elec. Utils. Corp., 
Prepared Testimony of Ellen Lapson, CFA on Behalf of the PJM Transmission Owners, Docket No. ER21-
2282, at 4-5 (filed Jan. 13, 2022). 

--- PAGE 25 ---
25 
 
The Indicated PJM TOs reiterate in this proceeding the evidence they have provided in 
other proceedings demonstrating the risks associated with owning and operating network upgrades 
for generator interconnection, should such a rate treatment become relevant for network upgrades 
to serve large load customers.  These same arguments apply with equal force to large load 
interconnection-driven network upgrades.  Put simply, adding new network upgrades makes the 
system larger and its operation more complex.  Whether network upgrades are funded by the 
transmission owner or an interconnection customer, the network upgrade assets are operated and 
maintained by the transmission owner’s personnel, who manage and maintain the rest of the 
transmission system and are subject to similar risks and obligations.  Operational and safety risks 
are separate from and in addition to development risk.  From a financial viewpoint, under such a 
rate treatment, there is no reward commensurate with the risk.  The transmission owner is burdened 
by the obligation to bear operational risk and exposures, without any return related to network 
upgrade assets if they are not included in rate base.  This forces the PJM TOs to operate portions 
of their network at zero ROE, which increases their overall financial risk. 
The construction, ownership, operation, and maintenance of network upgrades also creates 
significant financial risk to the PJM TOs, whether those network upgrades are for generator 
customers or designed to serve large load.52  While PJM TOs already own and operate some 
generator interconnection related network upgrades with no compensation, the number of network 
upgrades that will be required to accommodate large load data center customer interconnections 
necessary to satisfy federal policy goals surrounding the expeditious development of artificial 
 
52 See PPL Elec. Utils. Corp., Initial Brief of the PJM Transmission Owners, Docket No. ER21-2282, at 
16-18 (filed Jan. 13, 2022); PPL Elec. Utils. Corp., PJM Tariff Revisions to Implement Transmission 
Owners’ Funding of Network Upgrades, Docket No. ER21-2282, Transmittal Letter at 15-17 (filed June 
30, 2021). 

--- PAGE 26 ---
26 
 
intelligence infrastructure is already significantly increasing, and will continue to do so into the 
foreseeable future.  As the number of transmission upgrades for which a transmission owner does 
not earn a return grows, so does capital risk.53 
3.  
Transmission Owners Cannot be Forced to Construct and Operate 
Vast Portions of the Transmission System without Compensation. 
 
In the 2024 Show Cause Order, the Commission suggested that no specific returns or 
compensation for network upgrades relating to generator interconnections are necessary because 
the Commission’s proxy group ROE methodology used to determine a transmission owner’s ROE 
should automatically account for the facilities, i.e., “enterprise-wide ratemaking.”  As open access 
service providers, transmission owners have a duty to meet the demands of their customers and to 
plan such construction in a transparent planning process pursuant to Order Nos. 888 and 889.  
Under the enterprise-wide risk theory, transmission owners would be obligated to devote their own 
limited resources to operate and maintain their facilities for which they will earn no return.  
Because under this theory, the compensation comes from other projects, there is an obvious 
mismatch between who benefits and who pays if this theory has any validity, which it does not.  
This mismatch will become increasingly egregious as more facilities are constructed to 
accommodate the massive influx of data center loads.  As the PJM TOs argued in response to the 
2024 Show Cause Order, this contention is legally flawed54 and “would confer the Commission 
 
53 See PPL Elec. Utils. Corp., Prepared Suppl. Aff. of Seabron Adamson on Behalf of the PJM Transmission 
Owners, Docket No. ER21-2282, at 5-6 (filed Sept. 20, 2021); see also PPL Elec. Utils. Corp., Joint 
Affidavit of David Hunger and Seabron Adamson, Docket No. ER21- 2282, at 15-17 (filed June 30, 2021). 
54 See, e.g., Jersey Cent. Power & Light, 810 F.2d at 1180; Duquesne Light Co. v. Barasch, 488 U.S. 299, 
307 (1989) (“Duquesne Light Co.”); Bluefield Waterworks & Imp. Co. v. Pub. Serv. Comm’n of W. Va., 
262 U.S. 679, 690 (1923) (“Bluefield”). 

--- PAGE 27 ---
27 
 
with limitless ratemaking authority to justify borrowing from Peter to pay Paul across a utility’s 
enterprise.”55   
Imposing enterprise-wide risk theory is also an impermissible taking under the Constitution 
and would impose confiscatory rates contrary to the Constitution and the FPA.  As the U.S. 
Supreme Court has made clear, “the Constitution protects utilities from being limited to a charge 
for their property that is so ‘unjust’ as to be confiscatory.”56  Rates that “are not sufficient to yield 
a reasonable return on the value of the property used at the time it is being used [are] confiscatory, 
and their enforcement deprives the public utility company of its property.”57  In other words, 
transmission owners would be forced to operate a substantial part of their system on a non-profit 
basis. 
Under the ANOPR’s proposal, transmission-owning utilities would be required to own and 
operate a growing number of network upgrades without compensation.  Compensation for a 
transmission owner occurs when rate base is multiplied by ROE.  If assets are placed into rate base 
at $0, there is no return.  The Commission’s ROE methodology does not contain any special 
procedures to produce compensation fine-tuned to assign a higher ROE to compensate for the risks 
of network upgrades not included in rate base.58  Requiring no return on a portion of transmission 
assets places significant financial strain on utilities—network upgrades present the same risks as 
other transmission facilities, as discussed above.59  The fact that a utility may earn other returns 
 
55 See Answer to Order to Show Cause of PJM Transmission Owners, Docket No. EL24-81-000, at 4 & n.8 
(filed Sept. 11, 2024) (“Answer to Order to Show Cause”). 
56 Duquesne Light Co., 488 U.S. at 307. 
57 Bluefield, 262 U.S. at 690. 
58 Attachment 1 to Answer to Order to Show Cause, Prepared Testimony of Ellen Lapson, CFA, at 10-11 
(“Lapson Testimony”). 
59 Answer to Show Cause at 5. 

--- PAGE 28 ---
28 
 
from other parts of its business in no way ensures that the part of the business that gets nothing—
i.e., the business unit responsible for operating and maintaining network upgrades—is 
appropriately compensated.60 
 
Concerns regarding the risk associated with owning and operating load-triggered network 
upgrades are particularly acute here.  The percentage of electricity consumption relating to data 
centers is expected to double (or roughly triple at the high end) by 2028—from roughly 4.4 percent 
in 2023 to up to 12 percent by 2028.61  New load growth related to data centers is estimated to 
account for roughly 30 to 60 percent of U.S. electricity load growth.62  It is untenable for 
transmission owners to be expected to construct, operate, and maintain the necessary facilities to 
accommodate this load growth on a not-for-profit basis. 
Investing in and earning a return on facilities to accommodate customer load is the very 
core of the utility business.  The inability to earn a stable and reasonable return on these facilities 
would send a chilling signal to the investment community and threaten the efficient and 
expeditious expansion of the transmission system necessary to revitalize domestic manufacturing 
and promote U.S. AI innovation.  Moreover, if the main goal of the ANOPR is to more efficiently 
interconnect large load data center customers as electricity demand grows at an accelerated pace, 
not allowing utilities to earn a return on network upgrades runs counter to these goals. 
 
60 See Lapson Testimony at 12 (explaining how “lack of compensation for some assets will also cause the 
investment community to increase the cost of capital provided to the electric transmission sector”). 
61 Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, 2024 United States Data Center Energy Usage Report (Dec. 
2024), https://escholarship.org/uc/item/32d6m0d1, at 5-6. 
62 See McKinsey & Company, How data centers and the energy sector can sate AI’s hunger for power 
(Sept. 17, 2024), https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/private-capital/our-insights/how-data-centers-and-
the-energy-sector-can-sate-ais-hunger-for-power (explaining that data center load may make up between 
30 and 40 percent of all net new demand added until 2030); see also Boston Consulting Group, Breaking 
Barriers to Data Center Growth (Jan. 20, 2025), https://www.bcg.com/publications/2025/breaking-
barriers-data-center-growth? (explaining that data center power demand will account for up to 60 percent 
of total load growth in the US from 2023 through 2030). 

--- PAGE 29 ---
29 
 
The Commission must ensure rates and recovery mechanisms permit transmission owners 
to finance the work on reasonable terms consistent with Hope and Bluefield.  Without necessary 
capital investment, spurred on by reasonable returns on such investment, transmission 
infrastructure simply will not get built at the pace needed to ensure that the U.S. remains at the 
forefront of the AI revolution.   
D. 
The Proposal to Require Direct Assignment of Network Upgrade Costs Raises 
Thorny Jurisdictional Issues that Are Best Avoided in the Interest of 
Promoting Efficient and Timely Data Center Interconnections. 
 
The ANOPR’s principle that “load and hybrid facilities should be responsible for 100% of 
the network upgrades that they are assigned through the interconnection studies”63 raises difficult 
jurisdictional issues, resolution of which would impede and delay the ANOPR’s ultimate goal of 
“ensur[ing] the timely and orderly interconnection of large loads.”64  To avoid the need to resolve 
those issues, the Commission should use the long-standing approach of rolling the costs of load-
driven network upgrades into transmission rates recovered from wholesale transmission customers 
(namely, load-serving entities (“LSEs”)), leaving to states to regulate how LSEs allocate the 
transmission costs among their retail customers (including large load customers). 
In New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1 (2002), the Supreme Court recognized that the 
Commission’s exercise of authority over retail transmission service raises “serious” jurisdictional 
issues for unbundled retail transmissions,65 and even more “complicated” jurisdictional issues for 
bundled retail transmissions.66  These issues arise because, while “the FPA authorizes FERC’s 
jurisdiction over interstate transmissions, without regard to whether the transmissions are sold to 
 
63 ANOPR at  P 25. 
64 Id. at P 1.   
65 N.Y. v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1 at 27. 
66 Id. at 28. 

--- PAGE 30 ---
30 
 
a reseller or directly to a consumer,”67 the FPA preserves the states’ authority over (1) retail sales 
of energy,68 and (2) facilities used for distribution of energy to retail customers,69 and the rates 
charged for such distribution services.70   
The context in which the jurisdictional issues were raised in New York v. FERC was Order 
No. 888’s requirement of “nondiscriminatory open-access transmission services” “to encourage 
lower electricity rates by structuring an orderly transition to competitive bulk power markets.”71  
The context here is different, and the proposed federal action is more intrusive on state jurisdiction:  
a federal requirement to assign 100 percent of transmission network upgrade costs to a particular 
end-use retail customer (the large load customer).  This would eliminate the states’ traditional 
authority to regulate how the utility allocates its total transmission costs among various retail 
customer rate classes and would be beyond the authority granted to the Commission by the United 
States Congress.72 
 
67 Id. at 20. 
68 Id. at 17, 28 (quoting 16 U.S.C. § 824(b)). 
69 Id. at 22-23 (quoting 16 U.S.C. § 824(b)). 
70 Detroit Edison Co. v. FERC, 334 F.3d 48, 54 (D.C. Cir. 2003); see generally 16 U.S.C. § 824(a) (“Federal 
regulation of . . . the transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce and the sale of such energy at 
wholesale in interstate commerce . . . extend[s] only to those matters which are not subject to regulation by 
the States.”). 
71 N. Y. v. FERC, 535 U.S. at 10 (internal quotation marks and citation omitted).   
72 See, e.g., In the Matter of Proactive Planning for Upgraded Electric Grid Infrastructure, Case No. 24-
E-0364, 2025 WL 1704347, at *13 (N.Y.P.S.C. June 12, 2025) (“The National Grid surcharge recoveries 
shall be initially allocated to service classes based on using the appropriate transmission and demand 
allocators as contained in the utility’s most recent cost of service study.”) (emphasis added); In the Matter 
of the Provision of Basic Generation Service, the Compliance Tariff Filing Reflecting Changes to Schedule 
12 Charges in PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff – April 2021 Joint Filing, BPU Docket No. 
EO21040730, Decision and Order Approving the Pass-Through of FERC Authorized Changes in Firm 
Transmission Service Related Charges, 2021 WL 2653467, at *3 (N.J. Bd. Reg. Comm’rs June 24, 2021) 
(“Each EDC is allocated the derived NITS charges and TECs from PJM based on the cost in each EDC's 
transmission zone.  Based upon the allocation of the TEC Filings transmission costs among the service 
classes, the monthly bill for a residential customer using 650 kilowatt-hours per month will change by 
approximately the following amounts (including Sales and Use Tax): an increase of $2.27 or 1.76% for 
 

--- PAGE 31 ---
31 
 
The ANOPR’s reliance on other authorities similarly raises difficult jurisdictional issues in 
the instant context of the ANOPR’s proposed federal requirement to assign 100 percent of 
transmission network upgrade costs to the large load customer.   
First, Order No. 2003’s concern with open and non-discriminatory access for generators 
does not, as explained above, clearly support the more intrusive step of the Commission dictating 
what transmission costs should appear on a particular retail customer’s bill. 
Second, FERC v. Electric Power Supply Association, 577 U.S. 260 (2016) (“EPSA”), does 
not support the ANOPR’s conclusion that “interconnection of large loads to the transmission 
system falls under a practice directly affecting Commission-jurisdictional wholesale electricity 
rates[.]”73  At issue in EPSA was a Commission rule about how demand response bidders would 
bid in a wholesale auction; the Supreme Court held that this easily qualified as a rule or practice 
that affected the wholesale rate and fit within the Commission’s authority.74  On the other hand, 
the ANOPR’s proposal here to directly act upon the rate design applicable to a retail customer’s 
bill in the name of promoting large load interconnections would raise serious jurisdictional issues, 
regardless of any ultimate impact on the wholesale energy price.75   
Third and fourth, for the reasons explained above, the ANOPR’s proposal intrudes on 
traditional state authority by dictating the amount of transmission costs that appear on a retail 
 
ACE, a decrease of $0.37 or 0.41% for JCP&L, an increase of $0.36 or 0.30% for PSE&G, and an increase 
of $0.73 or 0.64% for Rockland.”) (emphasis added). 
73 ANOPR at P 14 & n.33 (citing EPSA).   
74 577 U.S. at 279 (“Wholesale demand response, in short, is all about reducing wholesale rates; so too, 
then, the rules and practices that determine how those programs operate.”). 
75See EPSA, 577 U.S. at 280 (“Suppose, to take a far-fetched example, that the Commission issued a 
regulation compelling every consumer to buy a certain amount of electricity on the retail market.  Such a 
rule would necessarily determine the load purchased on the wholesale market too, and thus would alter 
wholesale prices.  But even given that ineluctable consequence, the regulation would exceed FERC's 
authority, as defined in § 824(b), because it specifies terms of sale at retail—which is a job for the States 
alone.”). 

--- PAGE 32 ---
32 
 
customer’s bill, and such intrusion is not supported by a “core [FPA] purpose.”76  It is one thing 
to require, per New York v. FERC, open and non-discriminatory access to the transmission system 
for generators and wholesale transmission and energy customers, including in the situation where 
the transmission will ultimately go to retail customers in an unbundled manner.  It is another thing 
for the Commission to regulate how state regulators assign the recovery of transmission costs to 
different classes of retail customers.  
To be clear, the Commission has jurisdiction to fix the rates charged by transmission 
providers to wholesale transmission customers, and—as the Indicated PJM TOs argue elsewhere 
in these comments—the Commission should use that jurisdiction to require that costs benefiting 
the transmission network be rolled into the transmission providers’ rate base and recovered, with 
a reasonable rate of return, from all network transmission customers.  But the Commission should 
stop there, and refrain from raising serious jurisdictional issues about federal jurisdiction to dictate 
what transmission costs should appear on a particular retail customer’s (including a large load 
customer’s) bill.  That approach will avoid the delay in litigating and resolving the jurisdictional 
issues and, hence, will speed interconnection of large load customers consistent with the 
Department of Energy’s overall goal.  
E. 
The Commission Should Not Grant Large Load Customers an Option to 
Build. 
 The ANOPR states that, to the extent the interconnection customer is not the transmission 
owner, the interconnection customer shall be afforded the same (or equivalent) option to build as 
currently provided to generator interconnection customers.77  Under the Commission’s current pro 
 
76 ANOPR at P 16.   
77 ANOPR at P 26. 

--- PAGE 33 ---
33 
 
forma large generator interconnection agreement,78 generator interconnection customers have the 
option to assume responsibility for the design, procurement and construction of Transmission 
Provider's Interconnection Facilities79 and Stand Alone Network Upgrades.80  The Commission 
should decline to extend this, or any other, option to build to load customers.  Doing so would 
raise reliability issues and make the interconnection process less efficient.81  
The Indicated PJM TOs continue to disagree that an option to build, even in the context of 
generator interconnections, provides any significant value in terms of cost savings and efficiency 
when weighed against the need to ensure that any upgrades are constructed in a safe and reliable 
manner.  Regardless, the Commission’s endorsement of a generator option to build does not 
support extending that option to large load customers.   
While a number of large load customers are highly sophisticated commercial actors, there 
is no indication that these entities possess the relevant knowledge, expertise, or staffing sufficient 
to undertake the development and construction of electric transmission facilities.  Unlike many of 
the entities that develop generators, load customers are not electric utilities, and therefore, the 
 
78 Pro forma LGIA, Article 5.1.3 (Option to Build).   
79 Transmission Provider's Interconnection Facilities are defined as all facilities and equipment owned, 
controlled, or operated by Transmission Provider from the Point of Change of Ownership to the Point of 
Interconnection as identified in Appendix A to the Standard Large Generator Interconnection Agreement, 
including any modifications, additions or upgrades to such facilities and equipment. Transmission 
Provider’s Interconnection Facilities are sole use facilities and shall not include Distribution Upgrades, 
Stand Alone Network Upgrades or Network Upgrades.  Pro forma LGIA, (Definitions).   
80 Stand Alone Network Upgrades are defined as Network Upgrades that are not part of an Affected System 
that Interconnection Customer may construct without affecting day-to-day operations of the Transmission 
System during their construction and the following conditions are met: (1) a Substation Network Upgrade 
must only be required for a single Interconnection Customer in the Cluster and no other Interconnection 
Customer in that Cluster is required to interconnect to the same Substation Network Upgrades, and (2) a 
System Network Upgrade must only be required for a single Interconnection Customer in the Cluster, as 
indicated under Transmission Provider’s Proportional Impact Method.  Pro forma LGIA, (Definitions). 
81 This proposal also raises the same concerns as discussed above regarding the ability of transmission 
owners to earn a fair return on investment. 

--- PAGE 34 ---
34 
 
Commission has no jurisdiction to compel them to observe the requirements of FPA Section 215 
and the concomitant reliability standards imposed by NERC.  There is no expectation that large 
load customers will have some level of relevant technical knowledge on power interconnection 
and operations as generator owners because they are not in the business of constructing and/or 
operating electric facilities.  It makes little difference whether some large load customers have 
access to capital.  That ability does not render their qualifications sufficient to construct high 
voltage electric transmission facilities.  
Giving large load customers the option to build is more likely to delay large load customer 
interconnections than to accelerate them.  Large load customers will need to acquire adequate 
expertise before even starting the engineering, design, and construction process which includes 
skills at designing, planning, land acquisitions, and permitting and siting, and some of these 
functions may still need to be managed by the transmission-owning utility.  For instance, if the 
transmission utility continues to manage state siting and permitting applications and resulting 
proceedings, it would be necessary to develop a complex web of interactions between the large 
load customer, the utility and regulators that will likely result in significant delays in siting and 
permitting proceedings.  It will also increase costs to large load customers because they will also 
have to compensate the transmission owners for their administrative costs to review the facility 
design and confirm that the facilities meet the requirements for such facilities in the transmission 
owner’s franchise area.  Providing large load customers an option to build will therefore frustrate 
the ANOPR’s goal of accelerating the interconnection of large loads.  The most efficient and cost-
effective approach is to have experienced utilities continue to build the facilities needed to 
interconnect large load customers.   

--- PAGE 35 ---
35 
 
Also, there are a limited number of qualified professional electrical engineers with 
expertise in designing and planning the transmission system.  The industry has to competitively 
solicit talent from all over the country and the globe to provide these critical services to electric 
customers.  If talent is going to be diverted to a new subset of customers just so they may exercise 
the option to build, it will strain and dilute this limited pool of qualified personnel.  This will 
further inhibit the speed and efficiency of not just large load interconnections, but system planning 
generally, to the detriment of all customers.   
Providing large load customers an option to build also raises reliability concerns.  The 
network upgrades associated with large load interconnections will be integrated with the 
transmission system and will be used to serve all customers.  Transmission-owning public utilities, 
which are legally obligated to protect system safety and reliability, have the appropriate incentive 
to build and properly maintain network facilities.  As end-use customers, large load customers 
have no obligations to protect or maintain the reliability of the transmission system, including 
compliance with applicable NERC standards.82 Accordingly, existing electric utilities, using 
existing expertise, tools and processes, are best positioned to efficiently and cost-effectively 
construct necessary network transmission upgrades driven by large load interconnections.83 
 
82 See e.g., NERC, Reliability Standard TPL-001-5.1 – Transmission System Planning Performance 
Requirements (June 13, 2025), https://www.nerc.com/globalassets/standards/reliability-standards/tpl/tpl-
001-5.1.pdf.  Although the ANOPR states that NERC should review its reliability standards to determine if 
new registration categories or modified standards are necessary, this directive provides no assurances that 
large load customers will be subject to any relevant NERC obligations in the future, nor if so, when.  
ANOPR at P 31. 
83 Even if a basis exists for granting large load customers some option to build, which the Indicated PJM 
TOs maintain there is not given the goals of the ANOPR, any such option would need to be subject to 
conditions to ensure that the applicable transmission upgrades are con-structed safely and reliably.  First, 
any option to build should be limited solely to transmission interconnection facilities and stand-alone 
network upgrades, such as the customer side of the substation where service drops from the transmission 
grid to customer-specific facilities.  Under no circumstances should an option to build extend to existing, 
energized facilities.  Similarly, large load customers should be required to strictly adhere to the design and 
materials/equipment standards of the interconnecting transmission owner.  Failure to enforce consistent 
 

--- PAGE 36 ---
36 
 
An option to build also will hinder the ANOPR’s goal to accelerate large load 
interconnections because it is likely to lead to disputes over what facilities qualify for the option.  
Even the generator pro forma LGIA recognizes this likelihood by including a specific provision 
to address such disputes.  Under Article 5.1.3 of the pro form LGIA, both the transmission provider 
and the interconnection customer must agree as to what constitutes Stand Alone Network Upgrades 
and identify them.  That section further provides for certain procedures to be followed if the 
transmission provider and interconnection customer disagree about whether a particular network 
upgrade is a Stand Alone Network Upgrade.84 
F. 
Technical and Implementation Issues 
Certain of the principles proposed in the ANOPR, particularly principles 3 and 5, suggest 
that it would be appropriate, for purposes of studying the grid impacts of “hybrid” large load 
interconnection, to net the amount of on-site load and generation.85 However, it is important to 
ensure that the full amount of a customer’s on-site load and generation can be reliably 
interconnected.  While it may make sense to coordinate studies, load and generation should be 
studied separately in the event the system needs to accommodate the full amount of the on-site 
load, or on-site generation, without the other. For instance, PJM has presented a hybrid 
interconnection option to the Commission that would permit large load interconnecting at the same 
 
design standards would inject additional uncertainties into the planning process, complicating the 
operations, communications, and systems required for reliable operations and potentially degrading the 
reliability of the system.  A large load customer should also be required to utilize contractors approved by 
the transmission utility, and the transmission utility must have oversight of the engineering design and 
construction process.  Ultimately, the need to enforce these standards defeats the purpose of proposing an 
option to build in the first place: improving the efficiency and speed of large load interconnections.   This 
leads full circle back to the fact that the best way to achieve the ANOPR’s goal of timely large load 
interconnections is to have experienced transmission-owning utilities design and build the transmission 
facilities needed to interconnect large load customers. 
84 Pro forma LGIA, Article 5.1.3 (Option to Build).   
85 ANOPR at PP 20, 22.  

--- PAGE 37 ---
37 
 
point of interconnection as generation to be separately metered.86  In this construct, large load is 
studied separately from generation and could be interconnected to the grid pursuant to existing 
utility load interconnection processes.87     
When a facility engages in bidirectional power flows, reliability requirements can only be 
met through increasingly complex protection schemes.  However, simply adding protection 
schemes is not a panacea or a substitute for robust system planning.  The unrestrained proliferation 
of protection schemes, such as Remedial Action Schemes (“RASs”) will lead to more complexity, 
adding layers of vulnerability to the grid.  Many of these special protection schemes are meant to 
be temporary measures and should not be viewed as long-term solutions to the reliability issues 
associated with adding large loads to the bulk electric system.  Least cost measures that ignore 
prime opportunities to build and expand the transmission system for future loads may result in 
system configurations that fail to deliver on customer needs and fall short of ensuring long term 
reliability.  The Commission should refrain from adopting proposals that may undermine reliability 
standards or otherwise weaken the reliability of the grid.     
The Indicated PJM TOs agree with principle 4 of the ANOPR proposal to the extent that it 
requires reasonable study deposits and readiness requirements for large load interconnections.  
These measures will help ensure that large load customers are sufficiently invested in the load 
interconnection process, which will deter speculative or duplicative requests.  The Indicated PJM 
TOs also agree that a large load customer should be responsible for ancillary services based on the 
full amount of their load like all other customers. 
 
86 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., et al., Docket No. EL25-49-000, Answer of PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 
at 11 (filed Mar. 24, 2025). 
87 Id. 

--- PAGE 38 ---
38 
 
Principle 7 of the ANOPR indicates that studies for large loads that agree to be curtailable, 
and hybrid facilities that agree to be curtailable and dispatchable, should be expedited.88  Only 
fully developed processes that ensure reliability and incorporate the transmission provider’s need 
to separately study large loads can reasonably effectuate Principle 7.  For instance, a curtailment-
related priority assumes that the large load customer is curtailing its full expected load amount.  
But if the large load customer would establish various levels of curtailment of its load, that would 
in fact increase the studies utilities would need to perform and the amount of time to perform them 
when compared to a traditional large load study request.  Rather than mandating a shorter study 
period for curtailable customers, the Commission could instead consider providing a study priority 
for curtailable large load customers relative to other large load customers, but limited to those large 
load customers that make a binding and enforceable commitment to offer a meaningful level of 
curtailment, both with respect to the amount of load subject to curtailment and the curtailment 
period.  The Commission should also provide more time to study the existing queue together with 
these customers.  Otherwise, such a priority will simply incentivize gaming by offering de minimis 
levels of curtailment that provide little to no system benefit and could result in system reliability 
issues.   
G. 
The Commission Should Ensure that this Rulemaking Process Complies with 
the Requirements of the Administrative Procedure Act. 
 
The Secretary’s October 23, 2025 ANOPR outlines high-level issues for the Commission’s 
consideration and requests that the agency “build upon these principles and work expeditiously to 
initiate a rulemaking and ultimately issue a final rule April 30, 2026.”89  The labeling of the 
Secretary’s proposal as an ANOPR (i.e., Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking) indicates that 
 
88 ANOPR at 24. 
89 Secretary’s Letter at 2.  

--- PAGE 39 ---
39 
 
it is intended to “allow[] FERC to solicit comments and gauge public interest before initiating a 
formal rulemaking process,” including comments that “suggest the agency not move forward with 
a rule.”90  
If the Commission initiates a formal rulemaking, a forthcoming notice of proposed 
rulemaking must include more fulsome details that allow for meaningful comments on the 
substance of the proposed agency action in order to pass muster under the Administrative 
Procedure Act (“APA”).91  This is particularly true for issues such as the ANOPR’s discussion of 
the need for “appropriate transition plans” to implement any proposed reforms (but without 
suggesting what those transition plans should be) and its statement that “NERC should review its 
reliability standards to determine if new registration categories or new or modified reliability 
standards are required to ensure reliability of the [bulk electric system]” (without further details 
for NERC to follow).92   
As noted in the Secretary’s Letter, the Commission is required under 42 U.S.C. § 7173(b) 
to “consider and take final action on any proposal made by the Secretary . . . in an expeditious 
manner in accordance with such reasonable time limits as may be set by the Secretary for the 
completion of action by the Commission on any such proposal.”93  To constitute such a “reasonable 
time limit,” however, the limit imposed by the Secretary must allow for the required rulemaking 
 
90 See Rulemaking Explainer: Navigating the Rulemaking Process of the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission, available at https://www.ferc.gov/OPP/rulemaking-explainer (last updated March 10, 2025) .  
91 See, e.g., 5 U.S.C. § 553(b)(3) (“The notice [of proposed rulemaking] shall include . . . either the terms 
or substance of the proposed rule or a description of the subjects and issues involved.”); Nat’l Lifeline Ass’n 
v. FCC, 921 F.3d 1102, 1115 (D.C. Cir. 2019) (“To meet the rulemaking requirements of section 553 of 
the APA, an agency must provide sufficient factual detail and rationale for the rule to permit interested 
parties to comment meaningfully. . . . For notice to be sufficient, the final rule must be a logical outgrowth 
of the proposed rule in the sense that the original notice must adequately frame the subjects for discussion.” 
(internal quotation marks and citations omitted)). 
92 ANOPR at PP 30-31.  
93 See Secretary’s Letter at 2 n.5.  

--- PAGE 40 ---
40 
 
procedures set forth in the APA, including a sufficiently specific NOPR and opportunity for 
meaningful comment.   
The Secretary’s acknowledgement that the rulemaking process has not yet been initiated 
and the fact that an ANOPR is a precursor to the rulemaking process further support that any 
forthcoming rulemaking must adhere to typical rulemaking requirements.  Thus, although the 
Secretary’s Letter requests that the Commission take final action by April 30, 2026, if this time 
limit is inconsistent with the full rulemaking process, it is not “reasonable” within the meaning of 
42 U.S.C. § 7173(b) and would need to be extended to accommodate those requirements.   
III. 
CONCLUSION 
The Indicated PJM TOs appreciate the opportunity to submit comments on the  ANOPR, 
and respectfully request that the Commission act in accordance with these comments. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
/s/ Michael Kunselman   
Michael Kunselman  
Richard P. Sparling  
Nicholas J. Cicale 
Jonathan A. Namazi 
Davis Wright Tremaine LLP  
1301 K Street NW  
Suite 500 East  
 
Washington, DC 20005  
 
Counsel for the FirstEnergy Companies  
On behalf of the Indicated PJM 
Transmission Owners 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/ Molly Suda 
 
  
Molly Suda 
Associate General Counsel 
Annelise Rickert  
Federal Government Affairs Director 
Duke Energy Corporation 
1301 Pennsylvania Ave NW, Suite 200 
Washington, DC 20004 
Telephone: 202-824-8011 
Email: molly.suda@duke-energy.com  
Annelise.rickert@duke-energy.com  
  
On behalf of Duke Energy 
 

--- PAGE 41 ---
41 
 
/s/ Morgan Parke 
 
Morgan Parke  
Associate General Counsel 
Amanda P. Parker 
Corporate Counsel 
FirstEnergy Service Company 
341 White Pond Drive  
FEHQ-B3  
Akron, Ohio 44320  
(330) 620-9585  
(330) 384-4592 
mparke@firstenergycorp.com  
aparker@firstenergycorp.com  
 
 
Counsel for the FirstEnergy Companies 
/s/ Steve Nadel 
 
Steven M. Nadel 
Senior Counsel 
PPL Services Corp.  
645 Hamilton Street, Suite 601 
Allentown, PA 18101 
Telephone: 610-774-4775 
Email: SMNadel@pplweb.com 
 
On behalf of PPL Electric Utilities Corp 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
November 21, 2025 
 
/s/ Joshua A. Kirstein  
  
Joshua A. Kirstein  
Senior Attorney  
Law Department 
Consolidated Edison Company of New York,  
Inc.  
4 Irving Place, 18th Floor  
New York, NY 10003  
Telephone: 929-656-5971 
Email: kirsteinj@coned.com 
 
On behalf of Rockland Electric Company 
/s/ Alejandro Bautista             
Alejandro Bautista 
Assistant General Counsel 
Cynthia L.M. Holland 
Associate General Counsel 
Exelon Corporation 
2301 Market Street 
Philadelphia, PA 19101 
Telephone: 267-533-0120 
Email: Alejandro.Bautista@exeloncorp.com 
Cynthia.Holland@exeloncorp.com 
  
On behalf of Exelon Corporation 
 
/s/ William M. Rappolt 
William M. Rappolt 
Assistant General Counsel, FERC  
AES US Services LLC 
4300 Wilson Blvd 
Arlington, VA 22203 
Tel: 571-533-9018 
Email: william.rappolt@aes.com 
  
Counsel for The Dayton Power and Light 
Company d/b/a AES Ohio 
 
