--- PAGE 1 ---
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
 
) 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
) 
 
           Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Interstate Transmission System 
) 
 
) 
 
 
                      
 
 
 
REPLY COMMENTS OF 
THE SOUTHERN COMPANIES 
 
Pursuant to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (“Commission” or “FERC”) 
October 27, 2025 Notice Inviting Comments and the November 7, 2025 Notice Granting Extension 
of Time in the captioned proceeding, Georgia Power Company (“Georgia Power”), Alabama 
Power Company (“Alabama Power”), and Mississippi Power Company (“Mississippi Power”) 
(together, “Southern Companies”) submit the enclosed reply comments on the October 23, 2025 
Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking issued by the Secretary of Energy (“Secretary”) on the 
subject of large load interconnection to the interstate transmission grid (“ANOPR”).   
The ANOPR elicited a voluminous first round of comments.  Southern Companies were 
pleased to see such significant support for the principle underlying the ANOPR – that the energy 
industry has a critical role to play in the nation’s efforts to win the AI race by facilitating service 
to large loads.  Southern Companies look forward to continued participation in this proceeding. 
In the limited time provided, Southern Companies provide the following points of reply, 
reserving the right to comment further as the record continues to develop and the Commission’s 
intentions are more clearly laid out in a proposed final rule.   
 
 
 

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
I. 
REPLY COMMENTS 
A.  
The Record Demonstrates that Certain Regions Are Achieving the Goals of 
the ANOPR 
 
As set forth in initial comments, Southern Companies appreciate the Secretary’s leadership 
and wholeheartedly endorse the ANOPR’s objective of ensuring “timely and orderly 
interconnection of large loads to the transmission system.”1  Southern Companies further explained 
that, in the Southeast, the vertically-integrated nature of Southern Companies’ operations, paired 
with pre-existing integrated resource planning procedures, enable Southern Companies to adapt 
quickly and provide the type of coordinated planning and interconnection operations envisioned 
in the ANOPR.   
While the hundreds of comments filed in the proceeding are diverse and wide-ranging, the 
still-developing record already demonstrates that some regions have made significant strides in 
meeting the challenge of interconnecting large loads.  Many parties have expressed concern that 
progress already made could be undermined if the Commission were to enact an overly 
prescriptive final rule.  For example, as discussed in Southern Companies’ initial comments, 
Southern Companies have been able to plan for and support 74% growth in data center load from 
2022-2025.  Southern Companies have also entered into contracts to serve 7 GW of large load 
through 2029, added 4 GW of new generation capacity since 2022, and has pending requests to 
the Georgia Public Service Commission (“GPSC”) for another 10 GW of capacity resources.2  
Georgia Power has been able to meet these rapid needs by working with its state regulator.  
 
1  
Secretary of Energy’s Direction that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Initiate Rulemaking 
Procedures and Proposal Regarding the Interconnection of Large Loads Pursuant to the Secretary’s Authority Under 
Section 403 of the Department of Energy Organization Act, Dep’t of Energy, at 1 (Oct. 23, 2025), 
https://www.energy.gov/sites/default/files/2025-10/403%20Large%20Loads%20Letter.pdf. 
2  
Preliminary Rulemaking Comments of the Southern Companies, Docket No. RM26-4, at 2-3 (filed Nov. 21, 
2025) (“Southern Companies’ Comments”). 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
As the GPSC also explains, it has “acted swiftly and prudently in response to 
unprecedented new demand forecasts.”3  The GPSC further notes that “[t]he vertically integrated 
market structure in Georgia allows the GPSC to oversee every facet of this load growth and adjust 
to market conditions as they emerge.”4  Similarly, in neighboring areas, the North Carolina Utilities 
Commission explains that “North Carolina has already taken decisive steps to address the very 
challenges this ANOPR purports to solve.”5   
In addition to protecting existing progress, many commenters urge the Commission to 
maintain regional flexibility.  The Missouri Public Service Commission, with utilities in both the 
Southwest Power Pool and the Midcontinent Independent Service Operator regions, argues that 
“FERC should consider adopting broad principles that allow for innovation and regional 
flexibility, rather than narrow prescriptions.”6  Meta also argues that “[i]ssuing a detailed, standard 
rule that fails to account for the diversity in the economic landscape could slow down successful 
interconnection processes and undermine the Commission’s goal of bringing more data centers 
online faster and in a more orderly manner.”7  The Transmission Access Policy Study Group  
asserts that the ANOPR “…does not acknowledge the significant differences in large generator 
interconnection procedures and agreements in RTO versus non-RTO areas, and among the RTOs.  
There may be additional and new regional differences that must be understood in the context of 
addressing Qualifying Large Load interconnections, particularly as efforts are already underway 
 
3  
Comments of the Georgia Public Service Commission, Docket No. RM26-4, at 2 (filed Nov. 19, 2025).  
4  
Id.; see also Initial Comments of Microsoft Corporation, Docket No. RM26-4, at 4 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) 
(explaining its data center investments in Georgia) (“Microsoft Comments”).     
5  
Comments of the North Carolina Utilities Commission, Docket No. RM26-4, at 2 (filed Nov. 20, 2025) 
(“NCUC Comments”).  
6  
Initial Comments of the Missouri Public Service Commission, Docket No. RM26-4, at 13 (filed Nov. 21, 
2025).  
7  
Comments of Meta Platforms, Inc., Docket No. RM26-4, at 3 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (“Meta Comments”).  

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
in parts of the country to consider these issues.”8  ENGIE North America argues that “[i]t will be 
essential that any new requirements take into account, and at times defer to regional differences 
and regional knowledge of system conditions.”9  The National Rural Electric Cooperative 
Association similarly asserts that “any assertion of jurisdiction over large-load interconnections 
should be flexible enough to accommodate regional differences, because maximizing 
opportunities and minimizing challenges for such load interconnections will vary depending on a 
number of factors.”10  Shell Energy North America urges the Commission to “[r]ecognize regional 
differences in wholesale market designs and grid needs” and asks FERC not to “…impede the 
ongoing development of regional programs, tariffs, and procedures that support the objectives 
outlined in the ANOPR.”11    
The record already demonstrates that some states and regions have made considerable 
progress in not just interconnecting large loads but also ensuring power supply for such loads12 – 
momentum that could be imperiled by a rule that could inadvertently undermine existing state and 
regional processes that are already working.  There is less consensus at this early stage on how the 
Commission should take regional differences into account.  Some suggest that the Commission 
can merely permit entities to address these issues in their compliance filings, while others suggest 
 
8  
Comments of Transmission Access Policy Study Group, Docket No. RM26-4, at 9 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) 
(“TAPS Comments”).  
9  
Comments of ENGIE North America Inc., Docket No. RM26-4, at 3 (filed Nov. 24, 2025).  
10  
Comments of the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association, Docket No. RM26-4, at 6 (filed Nov. 21, 
2025) (“NRECA Comments”).  
11  
Comments of Shell Energy North America (US) L.P., Docket No. RM26-4, at 2 (filed Nov. 24, 2025).  
12  
A review of the comments submitted by some of the leading owners and developers of large data centers 
demonstrate that at their core, they want speedy interconnections predicated upon holistic, integrated transmission and 
generation planning.  See Microsoft Comments at 8 (emphasizing the need for load and generation to studied together 
so as to speed up the interconnection process); Meta Comments at 3 (explaining that keeping the momentum in regions 
that are successfully integrating data centers is “imperative”); Microsoft Comments at 4, 8 (arguing for the need for 
combined generation and load studies while recognizing that its data center in Atlanta, Georgia came online in October 
2025).  This is exactly what is currently being provided in the Southern Companies’ footprint and in at least several 
other regions, and such regional progress should not be lost in a push for national standardization.   

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
that any national rule will, by definition, thwart some element of existing progress.  While it is 
premature to comment fully on such a proposal, mere flexibility in a compliance process is not 
enough because it assumes that a national standard for load interconnections can be lawfully 
implemented.  Furthermore, establishing a national standard would require those regions that are 
already successfully interconnecting large loads to seek a variance through the Commission’s 
compliance process, which could be time-consuming, burdensome, and litigious, ultimately 
slowing interconnections rather than accelerating the goals of the ANOPR.  In short, a flexible 
compliance process would not obviate the need for any final rule to rest on solid legal footing.   
B.  
There Is Near Universal Acknowledgement of Jurisdictional Difficulties 
The ANOPR correctly and clearly expressed a desire to avoid interfering with state 
jurisdiction over retail sales, a principle Southern Companies strongly support.  Southern 
Companies further noted that traditional state jurisdiction over retail utility service should not be 
overridden, a particularly important principle in regions where the states have retained and 
exercised jurisdiction over transmission as part of bundled retail service.   
Comments on the jurisdictional issues in the ANOPR were numerous.  Some noted the 
potential legal pitfalls of trying to separate load interconnection from retail load service, especially 
in vertically-integrated regions.  The Edison Electric Institute, for example, suggests that there are 
existing statutory barriers to the ANOPR’s proposed reforms.13  The North Carolina Utilities 
Commission Public Staff argues that, “…it is doubtful that the Commission has authority to order 
the reforms outlined in the ANOPR, and if it does, its authority is quite narrow.”14  They continue, 
 
13  
Comments of the Edison Electric Institute, Docket No. RM26-4, at 27 (discussing FPA section 212(h)).  
Other parties raise the same concern about unlawful ordering of retail wheeling.  See NRECA Comments at 13-14; 
TAPS Comments at 11; Initial Comments of the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners, Docket 
No. RM26-4, at 4 (filed Nov. 21, 2025).  
14  
Comments of North Carolina Utilities Commission Public Staff, Docket No. RM26-4, at 2 (filed Nov. 21, 
2025) (“NCUC Staff Comments”).  

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
“[a] Commission rule prescribing the methods, timing, and transmission pricing for 
interconnecting load to the transmission system could not, at the end of the day, provide any right 
for that load to be actually served as a retail customer, a matter unquestionably reserved to the 
states alone.”15  The North Carolina Utilities Commission urges that it “…wants to make certain 
that FERC will not have jurisdiction over a core component of North Carolina’s regulation of 
bundled retail electric service: the interconnection of new load.”16  The Pennsylvania Public Utility 
Commission warns against “..an unprecedented expansion of Federal jurisdiction and potential 
intrusion on the states’ historic retail regulatory authority under the Federal Power Act, introducing 
potential confusion, unintended customer consequences, and/or legal uncertainty where none 
currently exists.”17   
A diverse group of entities suggest that litigation is a foregone conclusion if the 
Commission does not respect current boundaries.  The Maryland Public Service Commission, for 
example, predicts that “states are likely to challenge whether FERC can properly exercise 
jurisdiction over the interconnection of large load.”18  The Maryland Public Service Commission 
continues that “…a jurisdictional dispute over load interconnection would be counterproductive to 
all parties’ interests and should be avoided.”19   
 
15  
Id. at 3.  
16  
NCUC Comments at 1.  
17  
Comments of the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission, Docket No. RM26-4, at 6 (filed Nov. 21, 2025); 
see also Motion to Intervene and Comments of DTE Electric Company, Docket No. RM26-4, at 2 (filed Nov. 21, 
2025) (“Extending jurisdiction as proposed in the ANOPR, by contrast, is likely to result in significant and protracted 
litigation that would perversely slow investment rather than spur it.”).    
18  
Comments of the Maryland Public Service Commission, Docket No. RM26-4, at 5 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) 
(“MD PSC Comments”).  
19  
Id.   

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
Southern Companies agree with a central point of many commenters: the Commission can 
and should proceed in a manner that avoids unnecessary disputes over jurisdiction concerning 
FERC-jurisdictional service to retail customers.   
C.  
There is Growing Evidence That a Central Concern Is Power Supply, 
Highlighting the Value of Integrated Resource Planning  
 
Echoing many of the concerns highlighted in the Department of Energy’s (“DOE”) July 
2025 Resource Adequacy Report, several commenters make the point that a federal regime of large 
load interconnection rules will not address the core concern of power supply needed to fuel the AI 
boom.  For example, the North Carolina Utilities Commission Public Staff explains that “[t]he 
primary impediment to the electric industry serving large loads is having sufficient reliable 
energy.”20  Like many commenters, Southern Companies are aware of severe resource adequacy 
crises in other regions of the country.21  Southern Companies explained in their initial comments 
that their pre-existing integrated resource planning procedures enable Southern Companies to 
adapt quickly and provide the type of coordinated planning and interconnection operations 
envisioned in the ANOPR.22  Such integrated resource planning studies provide for the holistic 
analysis of both the amount of additional power supply and related fuel needed to serve data centers 
and the transmission upgrades required to facilitate their interconnection. 
Transmission interconnection reform alone cannot ensure that adequate generating 
capacity, fuel supply, and supporting infrastructure will exist to serve rapidly growing large loads.  
In the Southeast, these needs are addressed through state-supervised integrated resource planning 
 
20  
NCUC Staff Comments at 3. 
21  
Comments of The PSEG Companies, Docket No RM26-4, at 8 (filed Nov. 21, 2025) (noting resource 
adequacy concerns “in the PJM region, which has the highest concentration of data center growth while simultaneously 
experiencing rapid retirement of aging thermal generation resources”).  
22  
Southern Companies’ Comments at 2.  

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 
processes that evaluate generation, fuel, and transmission in a coherent sequence and support 
timely construction and cost recovery for new resources.  In the Southeast, these planning 
processes—backed by State regulatory authority—are already enabling the reliable service 
outcomes sought by the ANOPR and should not be inadvertently disrupted. 
This integrated resource planning is supported by Southern Companies’ regulatory regime 
that supports the construction and cost allocation of new generation facilities needed to serve load.  
As a result of these processes and regulatory structure, Southern Companies have not experienced 
the type of resource adequacy crises, and the resulting price impacts on consumers, seen 
elsewhere.23  While the ANOPR does not take on resource adequacy issues, the Commission 
should be mindful, while considering load interconnection reforms, not to create obstacles to 
integrated resource planning processes that already consider power supply, fuel, and transmission 
together, and which have the State regulatory support needed to build the generation resources to 
support AI dominance.   
D. 
Speed and Efficacy May Require A Narrow Rule 
Finally, many comments reflect considerable concern that the broader any final rule is, the 
more likely it is to be self-defeating, as speed of reform is lost to litigation and complex compliance 
processes.  A diverse group of voices express concern about how litigation delays could hinder the 
efficacy of any final rule.  The R Street Institute, for example, urges that, “[g]iven the limited time 
DOE has provided FERC to take final action, FERC should address the issue in a way that 
enhances its current processes, rather than materially expanding them, which will help the 
 
23  
See Complaint of Independent Market Monitor for PJM v. PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Docket No. EL26-
30-000, at 2-3 (filed Nov. 25, 2025) (arguing that resource adequacy problems exist in PJM that may compromise 
reliability in the context of proposed data center loads).  

--- PAGE 9 ---
9 
Commission ensure a legally durable and sustainable agency rule.”24  Similarly, the Maryland 
Public Service Commission argues that “…a jurisdictional dispute over load interconnection 
would be counterproductive to all parties’ interests and should be avoided. To ensure the ANOPR’s 
goals can be advanced expeditiously, the Commission should consider proceeding down the least 
disruptive path and abstain from asserting jurisdiction over end-use sales and respect the states’ 
authority over load interconnections.”25   
If the Commission mandates national standards to which states must conform, regions that 
are already interconnecting large loads in a timely manner would be required to re-engineer 
successful state-supervised processes to conform to a uniform federal template, inviting litigation 
and delaying interconnections that are occurring efficiently today.  A narrower approach—focused 
on guidance, best practices, or minimum principles—offers a more durable, timely, and legally 
sustainable path. 
Accordingly, in their initial comments, Southern Companies argued that the Commission 
could achieve the objectives of the ANOPR by using lessons learned from this proceeding to 
establish a list of national best practices for large load interconnections and adopt a policy 
statement or similar vehicle to encourage the use of these best practices.  Others, including Meta, 
suggested a similar approach in their comments.26  The Commission can exert considerable 
leadership in this area without mandating national standards that may only be necessary in some 
regions.  Such an approach here would allow the Commission to promote consistency while 
preserving state authority and avoiding protracted litigation that is sure to stymie the stated goal 
of the ANOPR.   
 
24  
Comments of R Street Institute, Docket No. RM26-4, at 1 (filed Nov. 21, 2025).  
25  
MD PSC Comments at 5.  
26  
See Meta Comments at 1.  

--- PAGE 10 ---
10 
E.  
Select Public Interest Organizations’ Critique of the Southeast Market Are 
Off-Base 
 
In their initial comments, the Southern Environmental Law Center and other associated 
public interest organizations (“Southeast PIOs”) made a number of claims about resource 
procurement and load forecasting in the Southeast.27  In particular, they argue that Georgia Power 
has been too “aggressive” in responding to large load demands on the system, creating a risk that 
certain transmission upgrades may be “under-utilized in the 10-year planning horizon if the new 
large load projects fail to move forward or are delayed.”28   In the case of Georgia cited by the 
Southeast PIOs, Georgia Power has worked closely with the GPSC to balance the need for rapid 
response to large loads with a desire to protect existing retail customers from bearing any undue 
costs.  This is also why Georgia Power revised its rules and regulations for large loads in excess 
of 100 MW to provide for certain minimum bill requirements, longer term lengths, and contract 
termination provisions to ensure that existing retail customers do not bear the costs of serving new 
large load customers. 29  Under these contracts, large load customers pay the full costs needed to 
serve them.  When this balance is appropriately struck, the risk of stranded transmission investment 
is minimized, and the far greater risk of under-forecasting load (an outcome for which the 
Southeast PIOs directly advocate) and failing to do our part to meet this critical challenge of the 
day is avoided.   
In essence, the Southeast PIOs seem to complain that vertically integrated utilities like 
Georgia Power are being too successful in facilitating new large loads like data centers.  The fact 
that Southern Companies have been forward thinking and proactive in ensuring large loads—
 
27  
See Comments of the Southeast Public Interest Organizations, Docket No. RM26-4 (filed Nov. 21, 2025).   
28  
Id. at 23.  
29  
Ord. Approving Revisions to Georgia Power Company’s Rules & Reguls., No. 44280, 2025 WL 388303 (Jan. 
28, 2025); In Re: Georgia Power Companys 2022 Rate Case, No. 44280, 2025 WL 1180825 (Apr. 17, 2025).  

--- PAGE 11 ---
11 
including data centers, AI and manufacturing—can interconnect and have timely access to reliable 
power shows that the regulatory framework in the Southeast is already working to achieve the 
goals of the ANOPR. 
II. 
CONCLUSION 
Southern Companies reiterate their support of the ANOPR’s stated objectives of timely 
and orderly interconnection of large loads to the transmission system, while also respectfully 
urging the Commission to focus on legally durable solutions that would not disrupt the successful 
outcomes already being achieved in the Southeast.  Action that respects these jurisdictional 
boundaries and acknowledges regional differences will best support reliable and timely service to 
the large loads driving national economic growth.  The Commission can provide meaningful 
leadership in this area without displacing state-supervised planning and service frameworks that 
are already producing successful outcomes for large-load interconnections. 
[Signatures on following page] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 12 ---
12 
Respectfully submitted, 
/s/ Christopher H. Demio  
 
Christopher H. Demko  
Associate General Counsel  
Southern Company Services, Inc.  
30 Ivan Allen Jr. Blvd. NW  
Atlanta, GA 30308  
chdemko@southernco.com  
 
M. Corey Sellers  
General Manager, Transmission Policy and  
Services  
Southern Company Services  
600 18th Street, North  
Birmingham, AL 35203  
mcseller@southernco.com  
 
Emily C. Gerhardt  
Senior Director of Government Affairs  
Southern Company Services  
601 Pennsylvania Ave. NW  
Washington, DC 20004  
ecgerhar@southernco.com  
 
 
On behalf of the Southern Companies 
 
Dated: December 5, 2025 
