--- PAGE 1 ---
1 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
INITIAL COMMENTS OF 
THE CALIFORNIA PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION 
The California Public Utilities Commission and the People of the State of 
California (“CPUC”) submit these Initial Comments in response to the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission’s (“FERC” or “Commission”) October 27, 2025, Notice Inviting 
Comments on the Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) on large load 
interconnection.1 
The CPUC strongly supports the shared state and federal goal of ensuring prompt 
and efficient energization of large load resources, such as AI data centers.  However, the 
CPUC objects to the Secretary of Energy’s proposition that the proposed rules do not 
venture into state jurisdiction.  The Federal Power Act (“FPA”) bars the Commission 
from regulating retail sales, and the Supreme Court has been clear: specification of terms 
of sale at retail “is a job for the States alone.”2  States have the expertise, authority, and 
ongoing and developed proceedings over areas impacted by this rulemaking: energizing 
1 To distinguish load interconnection from generator interconnection, California refers to interconnection 
of load as “energization.”  Use of the term energization in these Initial Comments, unless otherwise 
stated, is synonymous with “load interconnection.” 
2 Tri-State Generation and Transmission Association, Inc., Order Rejecting Proposed Tariff, 193 FERC ¶ 
61,070 (citing FERC v. Elec. Power Supply Ass’n, 577 U.S. 260, 264-65 (2016) (“EPSA”)). 
588200347

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
retail load, retail rates and terms of service, integrated resource planning, greenhouse gas 
reduction policy, siting, and system reliability. 
The CPUC and other states are already working on state-jurisdictional tariffs and 
standardized rules for large load energization.  The CPUC is currently reviewing a utility 
application to establish a new tariff to streamline the energization process for 
transmission-level retail electric service customers, particularly from data centers, and a 
CPUC decision is expected mid-2026.3  States, including California, are already 
underway in addressing the concerns the Department of Energy (“DOE”) identifies, 
making broad federal intervention duplicative and counter to the goal of timely 
energization of load.  It would be most efficient and constructive for the rulemaking to 
divide areas of responsibility and carve out the work already done by the states.  The 
CPUC urges FERC to continue the tradition of cooperative federalism enshrined by the 
Federal Power Act and coordinate state and federal action for engineering-driven and 
efficient outcomes necessary to reach our mutual goals. 
I. 
CONGRESS HAS IMBUED BOTH FERC AND THE STATES WITH 
AREAS OF JURISDICTIONAL AUTHORITY UNDER THE 
FEDERAL POWER ACT  
In passing the Federal Power Act and the amendments in the Energy Policy Act of 
2005 (“FPA”), the U.S. Congress has ensured a system of cooperative federalism and 
given complementary jurisdictional powers to federal agencies and the states.  Under the 
 
3 A.24-11-007, Application of Pacific Gas and Electric Company (U39E) for Approval of Electric Rule 
No. 30 for Transmission-Level Retail Electric Service (Nov. 21, 2024) (“Rule 30 Application”).  Interim 
implementation was approved on July 24, 2025 in CPUC Decision 25-07-039. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
FPA, FERC has jurisdiction over the transmission of electric energy in interstate 
commerce, including the rates, terms, and conditions of transmission service, and the 
“sale of electric energy at wholesale rates in interstate commerce,” and any rule or 
practice affecting such rates.4  Further, the FPA limits federal regulation “to extend only 
to those matters which are not subject to regulation by the States.”5  Under established 
rules of statutory interpretation, by being specific on the jurisdiction given to FERC and 
the States, Congress did not give FERC exclusive jurisdiction over all things tangential to 
the transmission system or that have incidental impact on wholesale electric rates. 
Instead, Congress gave jurisdictional authority to both FERC and the states and did not 
preempt the whole field of electric transmission.  As articulated by the United States 
Supreme Court, FERC has authority under the FPA to ensure that practices directly 
affecting wholesale rates are just and reasonable6 – however, one of the limits on FERC’s 
authority is that state utility commissions have jurisdiction over retail transactions.7  
Large load interconnection is part of retail service and is not part of the 
transmission system operation or a purchase of wholesale electricity.  Large load 
customers are end-use retail load customers, and their interconnection and purchase of 
electricity is a retail transaction, the terms and conditions of which are subject to state 
jurisdiction.  
 
4 FERC v. Elec. Power Supply Ass’n, 577 U.S. 260, 264-65 (2016) (“EPSA”) (citing 16 U.S.C. §§ 824(b), 
824e(a)). 
5 16 U.S. Code § 824. 
6 Id. at 279-80. (emphasis added). 
7 Id. at 267.  

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
The following sections address each of the ANOPR’s four legal justifications for 
federal jurisdiction over retail large load interconnection.8 
A. 
Generator Interconnections and Large Load Interconnections 
Are Not Analogous  
The ANOPR identifies the Commission’s existing Large Generator 
Interconnection Procedures and asserts that “like generator interconnections, large load 
interconnections are a critical component of open access transmission services that 
require minimum terms and conditions to ensure non-discriminatory transmission 
service.”9  This analogy between generator and large-load interconnections is too 
simplistic and does not account for fundamental jurisdictional and technical distinctions 
established under the FPA. 
1. 
Jurisdictional Differences Between Generation and 
Retail Load Merit Different Treatment 
FERC’s Open Access Transmission Tariff (“OATT”) governs generator 
interconnection for the purpose of wholesale sales and transmission service with the goal 
of preventing discrimination and providing equal access to the transmission system.10  In 
contrast, the ANOPR would create rules for large load interconnection – the purpose of 
which is retail end user customer purchases.  While large loads like AI data centers may 
 
8 ANOPR at PP 13-16. 
9 ANOPR at P 13. 
10 Promoting Wholesale Competition Through Open Access Non-discriminatory Transmission Services 
by Public Utilities; Recovery of Stranded Costs by Public Utilities and Transmitting Utilities, Order No. 
888, 61 Fed. Reg. 21,540 (May 10, 1996), FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,036 (1996), order on reh'g, Order 
No. 888-A, 62 Fed. Reg. 12,274 (March 14, 1997), FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,048 (1997), order on reh'g, 
Order No. 888- B, 81 FERC ¶ 61,248 (1997), order on reh'g, Order No. 888-C, 82 FERC ¶ 61,046 (1998), 
aff'd in relevant part sub nom. Transmission Access Policy Study Group v. FERC, 225 F.3d 667 (D.C. 
Cir. 2000), aff'd sub nom. New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1 (2002). (“Order 888”) 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
interconnect directly to the transmission grid due to their voltage needs, and their high 
demand may have an impact on the transmission grid, their consumption remains retail 
load, that does not implicate purchasing wholesale electricity.  As the US Supreme Court 
has stated, “no matter how direct, or dramatic” a proposal’s impact on wholesale rates, 
the Commission still may not regulate retail electricity sales.11  By statute and precedent, 
states set the minimum terms and conditions of retail service.  The OATT for generator 
interconnection does not raise the same concern of intruding into matters subject to the 
jurisdiction of the states,12  as states do not regulate electric generation.  
2. 
Technological Differences Between Generation and 
Retail Load Merit Different Considerations  
The electric system is more than just a marketplace for the exchange of generation 
and load services; it is a physical network that requires carefully managed processes to 
guarantee safety and reliability.  Interconnecting generation and interconnecting load 
have technological differences that result in different impacts on the transmission system 
and drive different considerations.  While there are sound technological reasons for the 
Commission to regulate the delivery of electrical generation, the same rationales do not 
apply to electrical load. 
To begin, generator and load interconnections differ fundamentally in their design 
and operational characteristics.  Load interconnections currently do not require the same 
extensive control and protection equipment to manage injections into the system within 
 
11 EPSA at 279-80. 
12 16 U.S. Code § 824. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
strictly defined limits as generation interconnections do.  Load interconnections also do 
not require generation controls, communication equipment, and protection schemes and 
equipment that are separate and distinct from equipment needed to connect generation to 
the system and which warrant distinct technical and procedural requirements.  Loads, 
unlike generation resources, currently do not shoulder the responsibility of adjusting to 
reestablish system balance, voltage, and general stability.  
Additionally, factors such as meter placement, and state and local permitting 
requirements (e.g., life, safety, electric, fire, etc.) further support separate treatment for 
generation and load interconnections. 
Generator interconnections further differ from load interconnections because 
generation includes voltage support, establishing a healthy voltage profile throughout the 
grid in transferring power while also minimizing losses.  The alternative to generation-
related volt-ampere reactive (“VAR”) support is to deploy fixed-value capacitors and 
reactors throughout the grid, or to utilize much more costly VAR sources.  Generator 
interconnections benefit from the cluster study process where multiple generators can be 
studied together and benefit from sharing the cost of certain network upgrade facilities, 
including new transmission lines, that can benefit multiple generators.  Generator 
interconnections already require coordination and study with the local transmission 
owning utility and agreements are signed between the CAISO and the participating 
transmission utility.  Only with the help of the local transmission utility are the generator 
specific network facilities identified and planned.  Load interconnection presents 
technical requirements, distinct from those of generation, that render the state the only 

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
appropriate jurisdictional authority.  Large load withdrawals depend on being 
strategically located, sized, and prescribed for the range of unique safety and reliability 
challenges, a feature provided at generation sites through VAR support, ample short 
circuit strength, and inertia.  VAR support and regional voltage profiles through a wide 
range of system conditions are most effectively planned and managed at the local level. 
Large loads are already factored into transmission planning at the system level and 
transmission planners coordinate with local transmission owners to plan reliability 
upgrades needed to serve the evolving load and generation landscape.  Sometimes large 
loads require customer specific protection equipment to prevent grid disturbance from 
highly fluctuating loads, but this protection does not need to be studied collectively and is 
going to best be designed in coordination with the local transmission owner, who has 
closest visibility into the local engineering requirements of the system. 
Large loads also form influential connections to local communities and become an 
important source of value-added tax funds, creating a greater interplay between local 
laws and regulations with large load corporations beyond energy connections established 
with generation facilities.  State-wide and location-based grid considerations—such as 
siting and safety requirements—are best done through regulatory oversight at the state 
and local utility levels, where conditions on the ground are better understood. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 
B. 
The Process of Interconnecting Large Load Retail Customers 
Does Not Have a Direct Impact on Wholesale Transmission 
Rates 
The ANOPR justifies its authority over the interconnection of large retail loads by 
asserting that “the interconnection of large loads to the transmission system falls under a 
practice directly affecting Commission-jurisdictional wholesale electricity rates.”13   
While the large load entities’ retail demand and purchases of electricity – retail 
sales – will have an undeniable impact on wholesale transmission rates (and the economy 
writ large), the process of interconnection of large loads to the transmission system has 
no more of a direct effect on Commission-jurisdictional wholesale electricity rates than 
many other activities under the purview of states’ authority.  Measures under the states’ 
authority, such as interconnecting smaller retail loads to the distribution system and 
possibly the transmission system, as well as safety and siting, could also be seen as 
having an effect on the wholesale electricity market.  
The Commission accurately points out that “The FPA has vested the Commission 
with exclusive authority to ensure that wholesale rates are just and reasonable and not 
unduly discriminatory or preferential.”14 However, these are not wholesale rates – these 
are retail transactions to serve end use customers, and states are charged with ensuring 
the terms and conditions of retail service are just and reasonable. 
 
13 ANOPR at P 14. 
14 Id.  

--- PAGE 9 ---
9 
C. 
The Proposal Impacts Retail Rates, Terms, and Conditions 
Subject to State Authority 
The ANOPR posits that “the proposal does not impinge on States' authority over 
retail electricity sales…” and “… does not exert jurisdiction over any retail sales to the 
large load.”  Further, the ANOPR asserts that “nothing in the proposed reforms governs 
the siting, expansion, or modification of generation facilities.”15 
To the contrary, asserting jurisdiction over the interconnection of large loads to the 
transmission system would impinge on states' exclusive authority over retail electricity 
sales.  Interconnection of large load retail customers has a substantial effect on retail 
electricity sales – and the states have substantial concerns that AI load interconnection 
could drive up electric costs for other retail ratepayers, especially residential customers, if 
cost allocation is not properly considered at the state level.  While the Commission 
asserts it is not seeking to directly regulate retail sales of electricity, the ANOPR would 
inevitably have the effect by influencing which retail loads may connect, at what times, 
and at what costs.  Large load interconnection affects retail electric rates for all retail 
customers in a given state’s jurisdiction, and therefore the state’s interest and scope of 
authority.  
Although the proposals in the ANOPR are framed as addressing only the timing 
and costs of interconnection upgrades; such upgrades are terms and conditions of retail 
service, the implications of which extend directly to retail rate design, driven by the state 
policy on cost allocation (between utility and customer) and cost recovery.  The 
 
15 ANOPR at P 15. 

--- PAGE 10 ---
10 
repayment of those upgrade costs is based on rates, specifically how soon utilities incur 
the costs to get the upgrades completed, allow the customer to interconnect when they 
pay for the upgrades, pay back the large load customer for upgrade costs if paid in 
advance by the customer and then add the system expansion investment  costs to rate 
base, start depreciating the interconnection (i.e., system expansion investments) facilities, 
and gain an authorized rate of return on those investments.  The implementation of a 
retail sales tariff under which a customer obtains interconnection service for its large load 
facility has historically been delegated to the states because these large loads are end-use 
customers subject to retail rate structures that fund grid services and ensure cost 
allocation that is suitable to the local system conditions.  To the extent that there are 
regional differences across the states in the timing, overall cost, and cost allocation rules 
applied to interconnection of large loads, they may provide a competitive signal for the 
efficient siting of new loads across various regions and is not necessarily a problem that 
requires intervention. 
D. 
It Does Not Follow that Because the Commission Has 
Jurisdiction Over the Transmission System that Any Large 
Load Seeking to Interconnect to the Transmission System Falls 
Under Its Authority. 
The ANOPR accurately points out that FERC has “exclusive jurisdiction over the 
transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce, including the rates, terms, and 
conditions of transmission service, and all facilities for such transmission or sale of 
electric energy at wholesale in interstate commerce.”  However, the ANOPR takes a 
conceptual leap in asserting federal authority when it continues that “[a]ny large load that 

--- PAGE 11 ---
11 
seeks to interconnect to the transmission system does so to obtain transmission service 
and the appurtenant benefits of such.”   
It simply does not follow that any large load entity seeking interconnection, and as 
a result receiving the benefits of the transmission system, falls within the sphere of the 
transmission regulation described above, particularly as most of these large load entities 
are retail end-use customers.  Most retail end-use customers interconnect with the 
expectation that transmission service will be employed at some point to serve their load 
and receive benefits of interconnection to the transmission system.   
Even when a large load facility takes service from the interstate transmission 
system, the physical location of the facility remains determinative of how it gets 
interconnected.  Whereas FERC maintains jurisdiction over the assets determined to be 
part of the interstate transmission system per the Seven-factor16 and Mansfield17 Tests, 
states retain authority over the retail load customer interconnection process including 
siting studies, safety and code compliance inspections, and compliance with transmission 
owner regulations on interconnection, including interconnection studies.  These state 
functions are essential to ensuring local reliability and public safety, and important 
reasons that load interconnection has been, and should continue to be, under states’ 
authority. 
 
16 FERC Order 888 at P 401-402 (April 24, 1996).  
17 Mansfield, 97 FERC ¶ 61,134 at 61,613-14 (November 7, 2001). 

--- PAGE 12 ---
12 
Finally, there appears to be inconsistency in how the ANOPR frames the legal 
justifications.  The first legal justification reasons that large load interconnections are a 
component of open access transmission service, while the fourth legal justification states 
that large load interconnections obtain transmission service.  This inconsistency blurs the 
line between transmission providers and end-use customers.  A large load seeks to 
“obtain transmission service” and is not itself a component of the actual transmission 
service.  Because a large load interconnecting to receive transmission service is not part 
of the open access transmission service itself, and is in fact distinct from generators 
accessing the transmission grid, oversight of interconnecting large retail load customers 
to the transmission grid should remain under the domain of the states. 
II. 
COMMENTS ON THE ANOPR’S PRINCIPLES FOR REFORM  
The CPUC aligns with DOE and FERC in the goal of “ensur[ing] all Americans 
and domestic industries have access to affordable, reliable, and secure electricity.”18  The 
CPUC similarly shares the goal of supporting American AI innovation through prompt 
and efficient connection of large loads to the transmission system. 
The CPUC appreciates the opportunity to comment on this issue and provides the 
following responses to ANOPR’s Principles for Reform.  
Principle 1. Federal-State Jurisdiction Balance  
The CPUC appreciates the ANOPR’s acknowledgement of the areas in which the 
states have jurisdictional authority and perspectives on how large load interconnection 
 
18 ANOPR, DOE Letter at 1 (October 23, 2025).  

--- PAGE 13 ---
13 
may fit into Congressional authority granted to FERC.  However, for the reasons 
discussed in detail above, the CPUC believes that regulating the terms of large load 
interconnection, which are retail end-use customers, encroaches into areas that are under 
the states’ authority and does not strike the best federal-state jurisdictional balance 
consistent with the FPA.  
Principle 2. Definition of Large Load 
 
The ANOPR proposes that the reforms should apply to new loads greater than 20 
MW and for hybrid facilities, defined as hybrid load and generation, where the load is 
greater than 20 MW.  The Commission “seeks comment on alternative thresholds, 
including whether such a threshold is necessary at all.”19   
What constitutes a large load is context specific in a quickly changing 
environment.  Load growth is expected to increase dramatically over the coming years, 
and what constitutes a “large” load will likely change over time.  For implementable rules 
that do not require frequent revisions, states should retain flexibility of defining the retail 
large load class based on market and technical local system conditions.  
The ANOPR’s proposed 20 MW appears to have been proposed as an analogue to 
generator interconnection rather than through review of the existing and forecasted data 
center load complexion.  The CPUC observes that data centers connecting to the 
transmission system in California are substantially larger than 20 MW, in some instances; 
recent filings have been more than four times that level with expected future filings being 
 
19 ANOPR at P 19. 

--- PAGE 14 ---
14 
much larger than that.  The CPUC is concerned that a threshold as low as 20 MW for 
large load energization will ensnare small commercial and industrial load in a large load 
energization process, which is not the intended goal of the ANOPR.  Therefore, while 
reiterating that there is no appropriate threshold for federal oversight of retail large load 
energizations, if a threshold is established, the CPUC believes that it should be far greater 
than 20 MW.  If the Commission used the generator analogy, it would not be the size of 
the load itself but rather the classification of the line that serves as first point of 
interconnection that determines whether it is distribution or transmission – that would 
govern the jurisdiction.  
Further, while large-load energizations share some operational similarities with 
generation interconnections, the two serve fundamentally different functions on the grid 
and therefore require distinct technical and procedural treatment.  These two distinct 
types of connections to the grid should not be treated the same because of the unique 
requirements for injection and withdrawal and the unique cost and responsibilities 
inherent in these processes.  Each connection type requires its own set of protections and 
facilities to maintain safety and reliability of the transmission system. 
Principle 3. Studies of Load and Generating Hybrid Facilities 
 
The ANOPR reasons that large load and hybrid facilities should be studied together 
with generation, which will result in more efficient siting of loads and generation, and 
minimize the need for costly network upgrades.20 
 
20 ANOPR at P 20. 

--- PAGE 15 ---
15 
While it may be efficient and potentially less costly to site large load near or at the 
same point of interconnection as a new generating facility, states are in a better position 
to consider local conditions and have established jurisdiction over siting.  As highlighted 
previously, the different requirements for injection and withdrawal, and the different cost 
and responsibilities inherent in these processes, support the conclusion that energization 
of load and interconnection of generation are best considered independently and 
separately.  To the extent that hybrid facilities apply for interconnection – there is not 
necessarily a new problem that needs to be solved: generators with some native load have 
long been studied as generation, and load with some onsite generation has long been 
studied for connection as load.  For example, solar generation with onsite storage has a 
different profile for studying in a generator interconnection queue than solar generation 
alone.  Likewise, a large commercial load with onsite, behind the meter solar generation 
has a different profile than one without any generation.   
Specific to California, adding this new layer of study processes would impact 
CAISO's recent interconnection process enhancements, approved by FERC last year,21 
and their interaction with the CAISO Transmission Planning Process (TPP).  For 
example, one of the enhancements includes the ability for load serving entities to “score,” 
and thus impact the prioritization of, generation and storage projects that are studied.  If 
any Final Rule in this FERC docket changes that prioritization process by prioritizing 
large load studies, it would also impinge on established state planning and procurement 
 
21 On November 7, 2025, FERC upheld all aspects of the CAISO’s interconnection process enhancements 
in its Order Addressing Arguments on Rehearing in FERC Docket No. ER24-2671-001. 

--- PAGE 16 ---
16 
processes, potentially delaying projects needed to comply with procurement orders and 
maintain system reliability.  
Principle 4. Study Deposits, Readiness Requirements, and Withdrawal Penalties 
 
The ANOPR suggests that “like generating facilities, load and hybrid facilities 
should be subject to standardized study deposits, readiness requirements, and withdrawal 
penalties.”  The Commission seeks comment on “the extent to which the existing study 
deposits, readiness requirements, and withdrawal penalties can be adopted.”22 
The CPUC supports ratepayer protections and efforts to mitigate risks associated 
with stranded or mis-sized transmission assets.  In coordination with parties and utility 
representatives, the CPUC is currently evaluating standardized mechanisms for 
energization of large load customers, and is weighing the benefits of financing, penalties 
for the failure of load to materialize, and requirements for refund issuances.  
The CAISO generator interconnection process incorporates provisions for 
deposits, readiness requirements, and penalties.  CPUC’s energization rules provide 
similar guardrails, and the CPUC is considering modifications to state processes for large 
load connections in new or existing rules.  The CPUC looks forward to continued 
collaboration with the CAISO through various pre-existing mechanisms, including our 
2022 Memorandum of Understanding,23 to ensure coordination and share learnings to 
 
22 ANOPR at P 21. 
23 ISO CEC and CPUC Memorandum of Understanding - Dec 2022 (“2022 Memorandum of 
Understanding”). 

--- PAGE 17 ---
17 
enable effective state planning and timely energization of large loads and interconnection 
of the necessary generation to power such loads.  
Principle 5. Hybrid Facilities Should Be Studied Based on Both Injection and 
Withdrawal Needs.  
 
The ANOPR proposes that hybrid facilities be studied based on the amount of 
injection and/or withdrawal rights requested, claiming that this would incentivize co-
location with new generation facilities and ensure efficient buildout of the transmission 
system.24 
The CPUC supports studying hybrid facilities based on requested injection and 
requested withdrawal rights, respectively.  This is distinct from studying the net of 
withdrawal plus injection.  Taking the Principle’s hypothetical large load customer who 
withdraws 500 MW and has a 600 MW generating facility as a springboard for 
discussion, the time(s) of day and whether and when the customer is injecting or 
withdrawing from the system are important considerations.  Depending on the 
configuration, it could be that this large load hybrid facility is functioning as a 100 MW 
generator or that this customer is placing both a 500 MW withdrawal and 600 MW 
injection strain on the system, at different times of day.  Technical requirements should 
account for that possibility. Moreover, the extremes of either a 500 MW load condition or 
a 600 MW generation injection condition could result from a forced outage of either the 
load or the generation: a scenario that would be unaccounted for if only studying net 
withdrawal plus injection. Consistent with its position regarding the ANOPR’s Principle 
 
24 ANOPR at P 22. 

--- PAGE 18 ---
18 
#3, the CPUC harbors concerns that the Principle #5 proposal would impact CAISO's 
recently approved interconnection process enhancements (IPE), as well as the IPE’s 
interaction with CAISO’s Transmission Planning Process.  The IPE employs load serving 
entities’ (“LSE”) study and “scoring” of generation and storage to help prioritize projects. 
Any rule changing the IPE by prioritizing large load studies and interconnection would 
impinge on state planning and procurement processes, potentially delaying projects 
needed to comply with CPUC orders.  
Principle 6. System Protections for Hybrid Facilities to Prevent Unauthorized 
Injections or Withdrawals 
 
The ANOPR seeks comment on operational limitations and whether there should 
be “minimum technical requirements for … system protection facilities, whether a hybrid 
interconnection customer should be subject to penalties for unauthorized injections or 
withdrawals, how any such penalties should be designed, and how such penalties should 
be allocated to other transmission customers.”25 
The CPUC supports grid planning that incorporates both injection and withdrawal 
levels.  The scale of the large loads currently being contemplated amplifies grid 
planning’s dependence on injection and withdrawal location, scope, and scale.  The 
CPUC supports the collaborative development of standards for technical requirements 
through the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) and associated 
entities including ISOs and RTOs to effectively serve large loads safely and reliably. 
 
25 ANOPR at P 23. 

--- PAGE 19 ---
19 
Additionally, penalties or other appropriate guardrails to limit excesses that may 
introduce safety or reliability problems could be considered.  
Principle 7. Expediting Interconnection of Curtailable and Dispatchable Loads 
 
The ANOPR proposes that “the interconnection study of large loads that agree to 
be curtailable and hybrid facilities that agree to be curtailable and dispatchable should be 
expedited.” It further seeks comment on “whether this should be accomplished through a 
serial interconnection study process of by some other means” and “whether such studies 
can be completed in 60 days.”26 
With the ANOPR’s proposal that the study of large loads be integrated into the 
study of generation in Principle #3, it is unclear if expediting the study of curtailable 
large loads would mean prioritizing them over the existing generator interconnection 
queue, which could have various negative impacts on existing planning and procurement 
processes. 
While this ANOPR principle proposes the prioritization of studies of curtailable 
and dispatchable loads, the CPUC is just as interested in including commitments of large 
customers that are technically capable of curtailing or shifting load in transmission 
planning, generator interconnection studies, and resource adequacy planning.  A recent 
Duke University brief, How DOE’s Proposed Large Load Interconnection Process Could 
Unlock the Benefits of Load Flexibility27 argues that the Transmission System Planner 
 
26 ANOPR at P 24. 
27 Farmer et al., How DOE’s Proposed Large Load Interconnection Process Could Unlock the Benefits of 
Load Flexibility, November 2025 (“Duke Brief”). https://hdl.handle.net/10161/33530 

--- PAGE 20 ---
20 
and the Balancing Authority need to have a framework to account for any transaction 
curtailment agreements or flexible interconnection agreements with flexible large load 
customers as part of the planning processes.  The Duke Brief observes that commitments 
do not currently translate into avoided network or capacity investments because 
transmission planners and reliability entities must still assume the customer will draw at 
full peak levels.  This likely results in “overbuild” of transmission and generation 
capacity, undermining the cost and timing benefits that flexible large-load 
interconnections could provide.   
While the Brief asserts a need for FERC to create a structure for large-load 
flexibility commitments, the CPUC believes that with existing state constructs, such as its 
Memorandum of Understanding with the California Energy Commission and the CAISO 
on transmission and resource planning,28 and relevant proceedings at the state level, the 
efficiencies identified in the Duke Brief can be realized.  For example, the CPUC recently 
issued rate design guidance to California's IOUs for dynamic retail rates in Decision (D.) 
25-08-049.  This guidance is reflected in Southern California Edison’s (“SCE”) pending 
large-power dynamic rate proposal (CPUC Application A.24-06-014), in which SCE 
proposes "two-part" retail tariffs that combine a subscription (i.e., a contracted level of 
service capacity) with a dynamic energy price that varies hourly with system conditions. 
This dual participation could be seen as a requirement of service: the customer’s firm 
obligation would extend only to its subscribed level, with higher usage subject to 
 
28 2022 Memorandum of Understanding. 

--- PAGE 21 ---
21 
curtailment at the operator’s direction and penalties for non-performance.  This approach 
mirrors the contractually based “transactional flexibility” proposed in the Duke Brief.  
The CPUC contends that, like other elements proposed in the ANOPR, the benefits of 
curtailment and load shifting commitments can be realized at the state level without 
federal oversight of retail large load energizations.   
Principle 8. Responsibility for Network Upgrades 
The Commission recommends that load and hybrid facilities be responsible for 
100 percent of the network upgrades that they are assigned through the interconnection 
studies, and seeks comment on whether such costs should be offset through a crediting 
mechanism and, if so, over how many years.29 
The CPUC has been weighing the issue of network upgrade cost responsibility in 
its “Rule 30” proceeding (PG&E Application A.24-11-007) and appreciates that the 
Commission included this important topic in the ANOPR.  The CPUC supports cost 
allocation “in a manner that is at least roughly commensurate with estimated benefits.”30  
For any cost offsets (i.e., reimbursements to large load customers) for transmission 
network upgrades, it is imperative that they occur over a period sufficient to ensure that 
risks to other ratepayers associated with the failure of generation to timely materialize, 
and costs borne while load ramps up, are fully mitigated.  Depending on factors 
including, but not limited to, the nature of the large load facility, the specifications of the 
 
29 ANOPR at P 25. 
30 FERC Order No. 1000, Transmission Planning and Cost Allocation by Transmission Owning and 
Operating Public Utilities, 136 FERC ¶ 61,051 at PP 622, 637 (2011). 

--- PAGE 22 ---
22 
upgrade work needed, and the anticipated revenue from the large load customer, the 
appropriate crediting time may differ.  Again, while the CPUC does not agree with the 
Commission asserting its jurisdiction here, if it were to proceed, the CPUC encourages 
the Commission to consider ratepayer protections against stranded network upgrade 
investments in instances where such investments would not have occurred but for the 
expectation of large load delivery.  
In California, the CAISO’s generator interconnection process employs a 
“participant financing” model, in which the CAISO assigns a customer the costs of 
network upgrades.  While the costs are financed by the interconnecting customer, once 
the generator is online, the participating transmission owner pays the customer back for 
the costs of the network upgrades over a five-year period, up to a cap per MW of 
generation.  The ANOPR proposes to treat load interconnection similarly, but fails to 
account for the substantially different value add of generator interconnection to the 
system.  Unlike load energizations, reimbursement of network upgrade costs to a 
generator is justified by resource adequacy requirements.  Further, the five years over 
which payback to generators occurs is likely too short a period to ensure that load will 
develop and be sustained.  Any reimbursement to load customers for their upfront 
investment in load energization upgrade costs would likely need to occur over longer 
than five years to ensure protection of other ratepayers.31 
 
31 In its Rule 30 Application, PG&E proposed a 10-year refund period at p. 9. 

--- PAGE 23 ---
23 
The interconnection study process is a critical piece of the cost puzzle. The CPUC 
supports robust participation from impacted state and regional entities and affected 
Stakeholders.   
Principle 10. Generator System Support Resource / Reliability Must Run Study 
 
The ANOPR proposes that an existing generating facility that seeks partial 
suspension to serve newly co-located load must go through a system support resource 
(SSR) or reliability must run (RMR) study, which must consider system conditions and 
forecasted load growth at least three years after the proposed suspension.  The suspension 
could only occur after needed network upgrades for reliability were in service, and the 
network upgrades would be the responsibility of the generator.  The Commission seeks 
comments on “whether and how resource adequacy should be considered in the 
SSR/RMR type study.”32 
The CPUC is supportive of considering reliability via the proposed studies.  When 
a new large load customer comes online in co-location with existing generation, that 
generation is not subsumed.  Rather, the resource would first have to be evaluated for 
grid system and / or local needs before it could reduce the capacity value it provides to 
the grid.  California relies on the existing resources to meet our existing and growing 
demand needs and does not allow resources to retire if they are needed to meet these 
needs.  If a new customer that was not adequately planned for connects to the system, it 
should not be allowed to subsume existing resources that are serving existing demand. 
 
32 ANOPR at P 27. 

--- PAGE 24 ---
24 
Further, regarding the horizon of such studies, in California’s experience, studies 
looking out only three years would likely be insufficient to fully assess system 
conditions, load growth, and potential reliability impacts. 
Principle 11. Transmission Service Based on Withdrawal Rights  
 
The Commission’s eleventh principle for reform states that “utilities serving large 
loads, including those at hybrid facilities, should be responsible for transmission service 
based on their withdrawal rights, as that value amount reflects the quantity of capacity 
and energy that is being transmitted across the transmission system to the load.”33 
The CPUC’s analysis indicates that, to the extent transmission infrastructure is 
constructed for a hybrid large load, withdrawal rights could be optimized by utilizing 
peak shaving at opportune times to capture the benefits of more energy sales while 
minimizing the need for new or upgraded transmission infrastructure.  The contingency 
condition in which the large load is forced off while the generation is injecting at full 
capacity would need to be safely and reliably mitigated. 
The CPUC contends that the transmission system needs to operate reliably while 
the hybrid facility is operating in either full load or full generation mode.  If the 
transmission system capacity near the hybrid large load is not inherently capable of safely 
and reliably responding to the forced outage of either the hybrid facility’s load or 
generation, a complex protection scheme must be developed and deployed in response to 
each negative impact possible. 
 
33 ANOPR at P 28. 

--- PAGE 25 ---
25 
Principle 13. Plan of Implementation 
The Commission’s thirteenth principle for reform states that “there must be a plan 
to implement these proposed reforms” including “transition plans” and “treatment of 
large load interconnections that are already being studied for interconnection.”34 
Given the CPUC’s concern that the proposals in this ANOPR impinge on states’ 
jurisdiction over the energization of large loads and generation, at the very least, the 
Commission should defer to rulemakings already underway by state regulators and, 
further, provide the opportunity for states to implement rules and regulations in the future 
to ensure the timely and cost-effective energization of large load and hybrid facilities, 
with greater assurance these state rules will result is just and reasonable rates for 
ratepayers.  
In the event that the Commission does exercise authority over large retail load 
energizations, the CPUC encourages the Commission to work closely with each state’s 
regulator to ensure the utmost flexibility and consideration of local factors. 
Principle 14. NERC Reliability Standards 
 
The Commission’s fourteenth principal for reform states that “utilities serving 
large loads must meet all applicable NERC reliability standards and OATT provisions. 
Utilities and we must be prepared to revise large load energization procedures and 
agreements, as necessary.  NERC should review its reliability standards to determine if 
 
34 ANOPR at P 30. 

--- PAGE 26 ---
26 
new registration categories or new or modified reliability standards are required to ensure 
reliability of the BES.”35 
The CPUC agrees that NERC reliability principles must be a primary 
consideration when energizing new large loads.  At risk is the ability for generation in 
one part of the region to help serve demand in another part of the region because the 
transfer capability will no longer be available to schedule and transfer that power over 
those long distances.  Given that the original benefit of a wholesale generation market 
was the opportunity for a more optimized generation dispatch, such generation 
optimization could be weakened with diminished transmission transfer capability.  This 
also follows from the loss of transfer capability and reduced wholesale generation 
optimization. 
III. 
THE CPUC AGREES WITH THE RECENT RESOLUTION ON THE 
ANOPR ADOPTED BY THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF 
REGULATORY UTILITY COMMISSIONERS (NARUC). 
The CPUC expresses its support for, and alignment with, NARUC’s Resolution 
Urging the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to Preserve and Affirm State Retail 
Regulatory Jurisdiction in its Large Load Interconnection Proceeding36 (“Resolution”), 
which was approved by the NARUC Board of Directors on November 11, 2025.  The 
NARUC Resolution “urges the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to preserve and 
affirm States’ retail regulatory authority under the Federal Power Act, ensure that large 
 
35 ANOPR at P 31. 
36 National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners Resolution Urging the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission to Preserve and Affirm State Retail Regulatory Jurisdiction in its Large Load 
Interconnection Proceeding at pp. 6-7 (November 11, 2025). (“NARUC Resolution”) 

--- PAGE 27 ---
27 
load interconnections do not compromise grid reliability or impose undue costs on retail 
customers, and respect state tools for promoting system flexibility and equitable cost 
allocation.”37  
Among other points, the NARUC Resolution also:  
• 
Urges that FERC “make clear that it is affirmatively not asserting 
jurisdiction over end-use sales, which falls squarely within the 
exclusive jurisdiction of state retail energy regulatory authorities;”38  
• 
Contends that states have authority over integrated resource 
planning, “enabling states to oversee utilities’ long-term forecasting 
of electricity demand and evaluation of supply- and demand-side 
resources to meet that demand in a cost-effective, reliable, and 
sustainable manner;”39 
• 
Asserts that “States retain the ability to implement protective 
measures, such as large load tariffs and flexibility requirements, and 
the ability to incentivize large loads to invest in local communities, 
including through programs such as facilitating large loads to 
interconnect more rapidly while bringing direct economic benefits 
to the community in the form of funding virtual power plants, non-
transmission alternatives or demand-side management programs;”40  
• 
Recognizes that “state regulatory authorities have the expertise and 
authority to balance economic development associated with large 
loads with the protection of retail customers, and seek to ensure the 
ANOPR proceeding does not undermine these efforts, disrupt 
orderly grid planning, and lead to further resource adequacy and 
affordability challenges;”41 and 
• 
Observes that “at least 20 States have approved or have pending 
large load tariffs or similar measures, which may include financial 
commitments, curtailment protocols, and minimum contract terms 
to allow for the rapid interconnection of large loads without 
 
37 Id. at p. 7. 
38 Id. at p. 6. 
39 Id. 
40 Id. at p. 7. 
41 Id. 

--- PAGE 28 ---
28 
compromising grid reliability or unduly burdening existing retail 
customers.”42 
IV. 
CONCLUSION 
The transmission system enables a robust wholesale generation market, the 
foundation of which is adequate and reliable transfer capability, allowing diverse 
generators in a wide region to competitively bid to serve loads.  This generation 
optimization to the lowest-cost generation in the market was a key driver of FERC’s 
Order 888. 
Generation interconnections and load energizations are critically distinct. 
Generation is the product being sold into the energy market, which is sought for use by 
the large loads.  As the product being sold, the producer takes responsibility for both the 
voltage and frequency of that product.  Generators form the anchors throughout the grid 
for adequate voltage and frequency, have control systems to detect abnormal voltage or 
frequency, and quickly adjust when an anomaly is detected.  In contrast, loads are the 
consumers of generation and generally do not take as active a role in assuring adequate 
voltages and frequency as generation does.  
The CPUC acknowledges that when a large load is located and served from the 
high voltage transmission system, the ability of the grid to deliver power to customers 
could be impacted by creating incremental transmission congestion at the large load’s 
point-of-delivery.  Further, if issues of deliverability and transfer capability are not 
addressed, there is the possibility that the wholesale generation market, and ratepayers, 
 
42 Id. 

--- PAGE 29 ---
29 
could be impacted.  A mechanism to retain or replace the transmission system’s overall 
deliverability via robust and widespread transfer capabilities needs to be protected or 
restored.  Such protection or restoration is best assured through more localized regulatory 
oversight with federal resources in support.  
Sharing the goals of the DOE and FERC of prompt and efficient interconnection 
of large loads to the transmission system, the CPUC appreciates the opportunity to submit 
these comments and believes that it is important for the energization of large retail loads 
to remain under the purview of the states, as they are best situated to address local 
operational, reliability, and affordability concerns.  The CPUC encourages the 
Commission to conduct this rulemaking in a way that embraces cooperative federalism, 
acknowledges the jurisdictional authority of the states, and helps to support the efforts 
underway in many states throughout the country engaging in rulemaking just like this one 
to ensure timely and efficient energizations, while protecting reliability, resource 
adequacy, and affordability for all ratepayers.  
November 21, 2025  
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Christine J. Hammond 
Christofer C. Nolan 
Inna Vinogradov 
 
/s/ 
Inna Vinogradov 
 
505 Van Ness Avenue 
San Francisco, CA 94102  
Phone: (415) 703-1793 
Email: inna.vinogradov@cpuc.ca.gov 
 
Attorney for the California Public Utilities 
Commission and the People of the 
State of California 

--- PAGE 30 ---
30 
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
I hereby certify that I have on this day caused a copy of the foregoing document to 
be served upon all parties designated on the official service list in these proceedings. 
Dated at San Francisco, California, this 21st day of November 2025. 
 
/s/ 
INNA VINOGRADOV 
 
Inna Vinogradov 
