--- PAGE 1 ---
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate 
 
Docket No. RM26-4 
Transmission System 
 
Independent Market Monitor for PJM 
v.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Docket No. EL26-30 
PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. 
 
 
Comments of Public Citizen, Inc. 
 
 
On March 23, 2026, the Commission denied a complaint by PJM’s Independent 
Market Monitor requesting confirmation that PJM has the authority to impose a 
temporary moratorium on new grid-connected data centers until the region 
demonstrates that it has adequate transmission and generation capacity to serve such 
disruptive large loads.1 
 
Just three days earlier, the North American Electric Reliability Corporation 
(NERC) announced it would issue a Level 3 Alert in May because of significant 
reliability concerns stemming from the rapid growth of data centers that are straining 
FERC-jurisdictional power grids.2 
 
The Commission’s March 23 order dismissing the IMM’s request for a temporary 
moratorium on new data center interconnections is directly at odds with NERC’s Level 3 
Alert. NERC’s warning makes clear that existing FERC standards and orders are 
inadequate to address the significant reliability issues posed by large loads. We urge 
FERC to support a temporary moratorium on new data center interconnections until the 
issues raised in NERC’s Level 3 Alert have been resolved. 
Last year, in both Congressional testimony3 and in a Section 203 proceeding, 
Public Citizen raised concerns about the disruptive impact large loads were having on 
grid reliability, particularly the manner in which data centers feature sudden and 
 
1 194 FERC ¶ 61,227, https://elibrary.ferc.gov/eLibrary/filelist?accession_num=20260323-3096 
2 www.nerc.com/globalassets/who-we-are/legal--regulatory/filings--orders/nerc-filings-to-
ferc/2026/nerc_accelerated-ll-action-plan_rm26-4_signed.pdf 
3 www.citizen.org/wp-content/uploads/tysontestimony0331.pdf 

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 | P a g e  
 
unpredictable surges of hundreds or thousands of megawatts coming on- or offline at 
once.4 
 
Not only should the Commission accept IMM’s prudent call for a large load 
moratorium, it should clarify that NERC has the clear authority to subject large loads to 
federal electric reliability standards. Requiring data centers to register with NERC 
would ensure accountability, improve oversight, and help prevent future threats to grid 
stability. Subjecting data centers to federal reliability standards should include a 
requirement for RTOs to impose forced curtailment requirements on large loads as a 
tool to ensure grid reliability. 
 
 
Section 201 of the Federal Power Act declares “that the business of transmitting 
and selling electric energy for ultimate distribution to the public is affected with a public 
interest.”5 Courts have consistently determined that the primary aim of the Federal 
Power Act is to uphold the public interest6 and protect consumers from harm.7 There is 
no federal law—Federal Power Act or otherwise—touting that data centers producing 
Artificial Intelligence are in the public interest.  
The U.S. Secretary of Energy’s March 23 order directing FERC to initiate an 
Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking claims that prioritizing timely interconnection 
of large loads “is in the public’s interest”: 
 
large loads, including AI data centers, served by public utilities must be able to connect 
to the transmission system in a timely, orderly, and non-discriminatory manner. This 
is an urgent issue that requires prompt attention … Asserting Commission jurisdiction 
is in the public's interest. This Administration is committed to revitalizing domestic 
manufacturing and driving American AI innovation, both of which will require 
unprecedented and extraordinary quantities of electricity and substantial investment 
in the Nation's interstate transmission system.8 
 
 
4 www.citizen.org/article/may-blackstone-potomac-energy-center-data-center/ 
5 16 USC § 824(a). 
6 NAACP v. FPC, 425 U.S. 662. 
7 Pennsylvania Power Co. v. FPC, 343 U.S. 414 (1952). 
8 https://elibrary.ferc.gov/eLibrary/filelist?accession_number=20251027-4001 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 | P a g e  
 
 
The Secretary’s directive makes no distinction between AI data center loads that 
host the data and large language models (LLMs) that generate AI-slop, or predatory and 
exploitative pornography, versus those utilized in the public interest, such as assisting 
researchers seeking to cure cancer. In fact, analyses of use cases for generative AI 
demonstrate that non-consensual pornography is its largest application of AI models.9  
 
AI developers, including the CEOs of some of the largest firms in the world, 
consistently warn that widespread deployment of artificial intelligence pose systemic 
risks to humanity.10 OpenAI was founded explicitly on the premise that AI could be the 
most dangerous invention in history.11 Anthropic CEO’s cautioned that society is not 
ready for advanced AI and requires significant guardrails—none of which are in place.12  
Americans have not consented to the draconian takeover of our society, culture or 
economy threatened by AI. Across America—red states, blue states, it does not matter—
citizens are increasingly saying “no” to data centers and the threats they pose not only to 
their communities, but to society.13 Just because a handful of the world’s wealthiest 
corporations say we need more data centers to hasten their commodification of and 
control over artificial intelligence does not mean that it is in the public interest. 
Neither the Commission nor the Secretary of Energy have demonstrated any 
public interest mandate for encouraging greater interconnection for data centers under 
the Federal Power Act, as no distinction has been made between AI data centers 
commodified to produce predatory, non-consensual pornography, and those producing 
public interest uses. It is not in the public interest to allow billionaire-controlled 
companies to operate data centers that are used to produce predatory pornography and 
other nefarious outputs. Nothing in the Federal Power Act statutory language, or in its 
legislative history, justify the Commission’s attempt to seize jurisdictional control over 
data centers that interconnect to the grid. Across the country, states are initiating 
proactive legislative and regulatory reforms in response to the numerous challenges 
 
9 Emanuel Maiberg, 404 Media Generative AI Market Analysis, https://tinyurl.com/3k37af75; 
Prevalence of generative artificial intelligence sexualized image usage by adolescents in the United 
States, https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC12998796/ ; Grok and the A.I. Porn Problem, 
www.newyorker.com/culture/infinite-scroll/grok-and-the-ai-porn-problem 
10 https://aistatement.com/ 
11 https://x.com/RonanFarrow/status/2041213917611856067 
12 https://darioamodei.com/essay/the-adolescence-of-technology 
13 www.citriniresearch.com/p/2028gic 

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 | P a g e  
 
data centers pose, and the Commission’s proposed rule unlawfully interferes with those 
efforts. 
While the Commission and the Secretary have failed to demonstrate their 
proposals are in the public interest, NERC has clearly established that AI data centers 
are having profound, negative impacts on grid reliability that require Commission 
confirmation that such facilities must be subject to federal electric reliability standards, 
including the authority for RTOs to impose forced curtailment of data center loads.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tyson Slocum, Energy Program Director 
 
 
 
Public Citizen, Inc. 
 
 
 
215 Pennsylvania Ave SE 
 
 
 
Washington, DC  20003 
 
 
 
(202) 454-5191 
 
 
 
 
tslocum@citizen.org  
 
 
 
Filed April 7, 2026 
