--- PAGE 1 ---
 
November 21, 2025  
The Honorable Debbie-Anne A. Reese, Secretary  
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  
888 First Street, N.E.  
Washington, D.C. 20426  
 
Re: Comments of the AI Supply Chain Alliance in Response to the Secretary of 
Energy's Letter Regarding the Interconnection of Large Loads Pursuant to the 
Secretary's Authority under Section 403 of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act and Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking under RM26-4-
000 
 
Dear Secretary Reese: 
The AI Supply Chain Alliance (“AI-SCA”) respectfully submits these 
comments in response to the Secretary of Energy’s (Secretary) letter and directive, 
issued pursuant to Section 403 of the Department of Energy Organization Act, 
requesting that the Commission initiate an advance notice of proposed rulemaking 
(“ANOPR”) for consideration and ﬁnal action in Docket No. RM26-4-000.  
As representatives of the digital infrastructure ecosystem, members of the AI-
SCA appreciate the opportunity to provide comments on the ANOPR. The AI-SCA is 
a coalition spanning the full AI value chain, including AI platform providers, 
microchip manufacturers, server hardware, data center equipment, software 
developers, data center designers and operators, and power-management service 
providers. Data center equipment providers offer additional infrastructure, such as 
networking components, high-performance storage, and cooling solutions, to 
ensure optimal performance. Data center designers and operators play the role of 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
architects, constructing and managing facilities that can house these power-
intensive technologies, ensuring optimal layout, airﬂow, and energy efficiency.  
The equipment and services provided by members of the AI-SCA are the people and 
parts that drive domestic and local economic growth in support of several of the 
large loads seeking to interconnect to the transmission system.  
Traditional barriers, like real estate and supply chains, are no longer the 
primary concern for members of the AI-SCA. Instead, the primary barrier to 
development for AI-SCA members is ensuring timely access to electricity. Put 
simply, access to sufficient power – and the long lead times often associated with 
securing it – has become a central barrier to new economic development 
opportunities in the United States. Reducing interconnection timelines is now a 
national security and economic development imperative. 
Meeting the growing demand from new, critical large loads requires 
accelerating interconnection processes and establishing additional pathways for 
large loads to connect to the transmission system in ways that manage costs and 
preserve long-term reliability for all customers. Approaches such as direct market 
access and new supply arrangements, such as co-location (or hybrid facilities), 
bring your own power, and behind-the-meter generation, can enable faster 
connection to the grid for large load customers like data centers, reshoring of 
manufacturing, and other industrial processes while ensuring that interconnecting 
customers are responsible for associated costs of network upgrades. Timely 
interconnection to the transmission system via existing sites with power and 
opportunities to quickly develop new and additional power supplies is paramount to 
meeting national security and economic development goals. 
The AI-SCA supports the direction outlined by the Secretary and the 
Department of Energy to clarify and expedite interconnection procedures and 
agreements to ensure the timely and orderly interconnection of large loads to the 
transmission system. We recognize, however, that implementing uniform large load 
interconnection procedures and agreements across diverse types of new large 
loads and transmission providers will be a complex undertaking. As an initial step, 
the AI-SCA encourages the Commission to exercise its existing authority to 
determine that large load interconnection to the transmission system is a key 
component of open access transmission service. In addition, we urge the 
Commission to encourage additional parameters and information from 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
transmission providers to develop large load interconnection procedures that 
provide ﬂexibility and that result in interconnection times that are faster than 
current processes.  
In summary, members of the AI-SCA encourage the Commission to act 
expeditiously in support of open and non-discriminatory access to the transmission 
system and standardization of interconnection procedures and agreements for large 
loads to support economic growth and competition.  
 
 
Respectfully Submitted,   
 
/s/ Tom Lawler                                                         /s/ David Burns 
Tom Lawler                                                             David Burns 
Executive Director                                               Director, Legislative Affairs      
AI Supply Chain Alliance (AI-SCA)               CO2EFFICIENT 
1001 Pennsylvania Ave., NW                          1001 Pennsylvania Ave., NW 
Washington, DC 20004                                     Washington, DC 20004 
lawler@co2efficient.com                                burns@co2efficient.com  
 
On behalf of AI Supply Chain Alliance   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
