--- PAGE 1 ---
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate 
) 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Transmission System  
) 
 
 
 
 
COMMENTS OF THE NEW YORK STATE RELIABILITY COUNCIL  
IN RESPONSE TO ADVANCED NOTICE OF PROPOSED RULEMAKING  
 
On October 27, 2025, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“Commission”) 
issued a Notice Inviting Comments in the above captioned proceeding on the Advanced Notice 
of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) to address the interconnection of large loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System.1  Specifically, the ANOPR sets forth a series of principles for 
reform that the Commission is seeking comment on.  The New York State Reliability Council, 
L.L.C. (“NYSRC”) hereby submits these initial comments regarding the matters that should be 
considered as part of the Commission’s comprehensive review of the reliability and resilience-
related effects resulting from new large loads interconnecting with the Interstate Transmission 
System.2  
I. 
Introduction 
 
The NYSRC is a not-for-profit entity, organized in 1999 and authorized by the 
Commission, whose mission is to promote and preserve the reliability of electric service on the 
New York State Power System by developing, maintaining, and, from time-to-time, updating the 
Reliability Rules which shall be complied with by the New York Independent System Operator, 
Inc. (“NYISO”) and all entities engaging in electric transmission, ancillary services, energy and 
 
1  Docket No. RM26-4-000, Notice Inviting Comment (issued Oct. 27, 2025). 
2  The NYSRC moved to intervene in this proceeding on Nov. 12, 2025.  See eLibrary No. 
20251112-5346.     

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
 
power transactions on the New York State Power System.  The NYSRC conducts its mission 
with no intent to advantage or disadvantage any Market Participant’s commercial interests.  Its 
sole focus is maintaining the reliability of the Bulk Electric System in the New York Control 
Area.    
II. 
Comments 
 
Large loads – whether co-located with generating facilities or standalone – will most 
likely be interconnected at voltage levels exceeding the 100kV North American Electric 
Reliability Corporation (“NERC”) definition of Bulk Electric System.  As a result, this will bring 
the interconnection of such large load facilities within the scope of the Commission-approved 
Electric Reliability Organization (“ERO”) mandatory requirements that are designed to preserve 
the reliable operation of the power system.3 
In general, under the ERO standards, all proposed system modifications, including 
transmission and generation additions or significant load reductions or additions, must be 
analyzed and designed to ensure system-wide coordination and continued system reliability and 
resilience to provide society with an “adequate level of reliability.”4  Reliability Coordinators, 
Transmission Planners, Transmission Planning Coordinators and Regional Entities currently 
must comply with ERO reliability standards requirements and, in some cases, regional criteria 
requirements that provide the minimum power system performance expectations.  These 
 
3  See the definition of Bulk Electric System (BES) and Bulk-Power System in the NERC 
Glossary available at:  
https://www.nerc.com/pa/Stand/Glossary%20of%20Terms/Glossary_of_Terms.pdf. 
4  See NERC, Informational Filing on the Definition of “Adequate Level of Reliability” (May 
10, 2013) available at:  
https://www.nerc.com/globalassets/standards/resources/documents/adequate_level_of_relia
bility_definition_informational_filing.pdf.    

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
 
requirements serve as the foundation for good utility practices in transmission planning and 
operation.  
As the power system becomes more operationally stressed due to the increased addition 
of large loads coupled with the penetration of intermittent resources, the probability of triggering 
automatic underfrequency load shedding (“automatic UFLS”) programs will likely increase for 
large loads.  The Commission’s ANOPR seeks comment on a number of principles for reform, 
including “whether other operational limitations should be considered [and] the minimum 
technical requirements for such system protection facilities . . . .5  Moreover, the ANOPR 
provides that utilities serving large loads must meet all applicable NERC, regional, and local 
reliability standards, criteria and rules.6  Utilities and local reliability regulators such as the 
NYSRC must be prepared to revise large load interconnection requirements as necessary to 
preserve both resilience and reliability.  
While there are many areas of reliability related concern, one that has not been raised but 
is vital is automatic UFLS programs and their role as the last line of defense used during periods 
of stressed system conditions after operators have exhausted all of their manual load shedding 
(i.e., rotating blackout) options.  The NYSRC submits that consideration of automatic UFLS 
would be consistent with operations reforms or principles to guide the Commission’s 
advancement of large load interconnections.   
A. 
Greater Focus on Automatic UFLS During Large Load Interconnection  
Although the automatic UFLS standard calls for having a certain amount of load to be 
under automatic control to be shed, the addition of large loads at a swift pace makes it all the 
 
5  ANOPR ¶ 23.   
6  ANOPR ¶ 31. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
 
more important to ensure that the automatic UFLS programs are up to date and can address the 
presence of new large loads on the system.  The NYSRC has a direct interest in ensuring that the 
addition of a large load does not disrupt reliability and resilience after a disturbance to the power 
system. 
There are a number of other NERC standards and principles that the NYSRC submits 
should be relied upon heavily in the analysis surrounding the reliability and resilience impacts of 
large new loads coming online and their interaction with existing automatic UFLS programs.  
Not specifically discussed in the ANOPR materials, but extremely important to the preservation 
of an adequate level of reliability are the mandatory requirements of PRC-006-5 related to 
automatic UFLS. The purpose of the standard is stated as follows: “[t]o establish design and 
documentation requirements for [automatic UFLS] programs to arrest declining frequency, assist 
recovery of frequency following underfrequency events and provide last resort system 
preservation measures” (emphasis added). 
The functionality of this “last resort system preservation” program is assessed through 
studies, which identify the electrical islands that may be formed under simulated disturbance 
conditions.  The studies are used to establish the parameters of the UFLS Entity automatic UFLS 
programs as required by the standard.  Automatic underfrequency load shedding programs will 
activate and shed pre-selected load automatically if all manual load shedding (for example 
rotating blackouts) by operators has been exhausted and system frequency continues to decline.  
The expectation is that the system can be reconstructed from the remaining energized islands to 
reduce the likelihood that the black start of the entire system is avoided.  
Potential adverse impacts to reliability and resilience must be examined in advance (not 
reactively) and be addressed through the design of the interconnection facility.  Good utility 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
 
practice mandates that the reliability effects of the added large load be thoroughly examined in 
advance, the risks thoroughly identified, and then mitigated through the application of good 
utility practice in planning, design, construction, and testing.  A substantial portion of what is 
required in the ERO standards is directed in such a way as to avoid ever experiencing load loss, 
cascading, and uncontrolled separation as outlined in the definition of the adequate reliability 
mentioned earlier.  However, the automatic UFLS programs are rarely thought of because they 
are not triggered frequently.  Although, in recent years, automatic UFLS has come close to being 
activated during Winter Storm Uri.   
NERC did not envision the magnitude of the single load additions that are being 
contemplated and studied at this time (i.e., 500, 1,000, 1,500 MW/MVA loads).  At the time of 
the initial adoption of PRC-006, load growth was either relatively slow or non-existent in some 
areas and there was consensus around the current requirement in R4 to perform a functional 
review of the effectiveness of the UFLS program only once every five-years.  It is likely that 
without offering some portion of the newly connected large load to become part of the automatic 
UFLS program, the utility may not be able to find enough additional load to place under 
automatic UFLS control to meet the NERC or regional standard requirements (due to the five-
year examination period).  More importantly, if a portion of the large new load is not incorporated 
in a study, the studied system’s automatic UFLS program may not work to achieve the purpose 
of providing guidance and limiting the extent of system separation. This is a retroactive, not 
preemptive approach.  The NYSRC respectfully submits that the Commission should consider 
modifying this approach to account for the current state of the system and the rapid changes 
underway. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
 
The ANOPR at paragraph 12 notes the need for standardization of the interconnection 
procedures and agreements for such loads.  While the NYSRC takes no position on agreements 
related to pricing of service to large loads, it has an interest in the agreements to the extent they 
call for studies of the impact of large loads on system reliability and resilience. 
The NYSRC respectfully requests that the Commission take note of the reliability and 
resilience aspect of integration of large loads into the system and offer some guidance to the ERO 
and to industry.  There is recognition in the ANOPR that the large new loads will be coming 
online quickly.  Thus, the need to identify the processes necessary to serve these loads and 
understand the relationship between their service and automatic UFLS programs is urgent.  It is 
likely that retroactive automatic UFLS studies conducted only once every five years will not pick 
up the reliability and resilience implications of these large loads on the existing automatic UFLS 
programs and instead should be implemented through the interconnection process by the 
Reliability Coordinator or the interconnecting Transmission Owner as appropriate.  The current 
scheme at the NERC level calls for conducting such studies only every five years, after the load 
has been connected.  Given the magnitude of the proposed loads, these studies should be 
conducted in advance of interconnection to assure the functionality of automatic underfrequency 
load shedding programs.  
III. 
Conclusion 
 
 
The NYSRC is in support of the Commission’s inquiry into necessary reforms to 
effectuate the interconnection of large loads.  Accordingly, the NYSRC submits that automatic 
UFLS programs must be considered in the design of large load facilities interconnecting to the 
transmission system from a preemptive or proactive planning perspective.  The power system 
will reveal, often with striking speed and severity, the consequences of deficiencies in planning, 

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
 
design, or operation.  The NYSRC’s recommendations set forth herein are intended to prevent 
planning deficiencies and strengthen operational expectations of large loads in order to maintain 
the reliability of the Bulk Electric System.  
 
The NYSRC appreciates the Commission’s consideration of these comments.   
 
Dated: 
November 21, 2025 
 
 
Albany, New York 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
/s/ Amanda De Vito Trinsey 
Amanda De Vito Trinsey, Esq. 
COUCH WHITE, LLP 
Counsel for the New York State 
    Reliability Council, L.L.C. 
540 Broadway, P.O. Box 22222 
Albany, New York 12201-2222 
 
 
adevito@couchwhite.com 

--- PAGE 8 ---
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
 
 
I hereby certify that the foregoing Comments of the New York State Reliability Council, 
L.L.C. has been served upon each person designated on the official service list compiled by the 
Secretary in this proceeding in accordance with the requirements of Rule 2010 of the Commission's 
Rules of Practice and Procedure. 
Dated:  
November 21, 2025 
Albany, New York 
/s/ Amanda De Vito Trinsey 
Amanda De Vito Trinsey 
 
