--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
COMMENTS OF 
TRANSMISSION ACCESS POLICY STUDY GROUP 
The Transmission Access Policy Study Group (“TAPS”), an association of 
transmission-dependent utilities (“TDUs”) in thirty-five states promoting open and non-
discriminatory transmission access, appreciates the opportunity to comment on the 
Secretary of Energy’s proposed Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”)1 
under consideration by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (the “Commission”).  
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
As the ANOPR correctly recognizes, the rapid increase in large loads seeking to 
interconnect to the interstate transmission system—primarily driven by rapid growth in 
data center demand—is creating new and unique challenges. The ANOPR then presents 
“potential reforms to ensure the timely and orderly interconnection of large loads” for the 
Commission to consider in this proceeding.2  
Given the ANOPR’s focus on the unique challenges presented by data centers 
(and other large commercial and industrial loads),3 and its emphasis on not intruding on 
 
1 Secretary of Energy, Ensuring the Timely and Orderly Interconnection of Large Loads, Advanced Notice 
of Proposed Rulemaking (released Oct. 23, 2023), eLibrary No. 20251027-4001 (“ANOPR”). On 
November 7, 2025, the Commission extended the deadline for comments and reply comments on the 
ANOPR to November 21, 2025, and December 5, 2025, respectively. Notice Granting Extension of Time 
(Nov. 7, 2025), eLibrary No. 20251107-3060.  
2 ANOPR P 1.  
3 See, e.g., id. (distinguishing (1) the “increasing quantities of large commercial and industrial load, most 
notably data centers” connecting to the transmission system, from (2) “demand growth, such as home and 
vehicle electrification”).  

--- PAGE 2 ---
- 2 - 
 
state authority over retail sales notwithstanding that a large load “is an end-use 
customer,”4 TAPS understands the ANOPR’s discussions of “large load” as specifically 
intended to cover a large, individual retail customer seeking to interconnect directly to the 
transmission system and meeting other to-be-determined qualifications. For clarity, these 
Comments generally use the term Qualifying Large Loads (and, where a Qualifying 
Large Load shares a point of interconnection with generation, Qualifying Large Hybrid 
Facilities) to distinguish these particular large loads from load more broadly.5 
TAPS agrees that the swift and accelerating development of very large data 
centers presents unique challenges to the Commission’s responsibility under the Federal 
Power Act (“FPA”). These large loads are already causing, and are expected to continue 
to cause, extremely costly transmission upgrades to reliably serve their ambitious—yet 
uncertain—load forecasts. The Commission must be proactive in addressing the huge 
impact that the interconnections of Qualifying Large Loads have on Commission-
jurisdictional services to protect transmission customers—and, ultimately, other end-use 
individual and business ratepayers—from paying costs they did not cause. But given the 
numerous complex issues raised by the ANOPR, from both technical and policy 
perspectives, TAPS requests that the Commission hold a technical conference, with an 
opportunity for follow-up comments (see Part I below). 
While the ANOPR identifies fourteen specific “Principles for Reform,” TAPS 
urges the Commission to follow two overarching goals in any actions it takes regarding 
Qualifying Large Load Interconnection: 
 
4 Id. P 15. 
5 With respect to Principle 13, we use the term “large loads” to reference the term used in the currently 
ongoing efforts by the North American Electric Reliability Corp. (“NERC”).    

--- PAGE 3 ---
- 3 - 
 
• 
First, the Commission should ensure that any reforms are protective of wholesale 
transmission customers, so that these other customers are not stuck bearing the 
cost, reliability, or resource adequacy burdens associated with meeting the needs 
of Qualifying Large Loads. Affordability to consumers should be a key objective. 
• 
Second, any Qualifying Large Load interconnection reforms should be carefully 
crafted to avoid opportunities for gaming or undue preference that is not tied to 
and justified by specific, relevant characteristics. 
In addition, TAPS offers comments on the ANOPR’s principles, which we briefly 
summarize below:  
Principle 1: The Commission should ensure that any Qualifying Large Load 
interconnection reforms respect state and municipal jurisdiction over retail service 
(e.g., retail sales of electricity, retail service territories, etc.). 
Principle 2: While TAPS does not take a position in these Comments on the MW 
threshold for determining what is a “large” Qualifying Large Load 
interconnection, a precise definition of Qualifying Large Loads subject to reforms 
adopted in this proceeding (beyond just a size threshold) is needed to ensure that 
any different treatment of such loads is tied to specific, relevant characteristics. 
Principle 3: The use of a single study process for Qualifying Large Load and 
Hybrid Facilities, along with generating facilities, could address concerns with 
gaming and undue discrimination, but it would require resolution of a host of 
complicated implementation details.  
Principle 4: Study deposits, readiness requirements, and withdrawal penalties 
could address concerns about speculative Qualifying Large Loads and Hybrid 
Facilities that might withdraw from the interconnection queue and undermine the 
goal of an orderly and efficient interconnection process. But these measures are 
not sufficient to address the major concern that Qualifying Large Loads and 
Hybrid Facilities may complete the interconnection process, cause massive 
transmission upgrades to be constructed, but then fail to attain and maintain over 
an extended time the amount of demand for which those upgrades were planned. 
That major problem must be addressed through additional, separate measures (see 
Principle 8). 
Principle 5: Any questions about studying Qualifying Large Hybrid Facilities 
based on requested injection or withdrawal rights depend on the mechanisms in 
place to limit injections and withdrawals (see Principle 6).  
Principle 6: System protection facilities are essential to enforce limits on 
injection and withdrawal that a Qualifying Large Hybrid Facility commits to and 
is studied for. Operational limitations may also be necessary, as system protection 
facilities may fail. While financial penalties may also be appropriate, the 

--- PAGE 4 ---
- 4 - 
 
Commission should not rely on them given the serious consequences of exceeding 
these limits.  
Principle 7: Qualifying Large Loads and Hybrid Facilities that agree to be 
curtailable and dispatchable should not receive expedited study treatment. Such 
an approach would trigger serious undue discrimination problems. Curtailability 
should instead be encouraged through other mechanisms. 
Principle 8: TAPS supports holding Qualifying Large Loads responsible for 
100% of the network upgrade costs they are assigned in the study process. This is 
critical to protecting others from costs specifically caused by Qualifying Large 
Load interconnections, particularly if Qualifying Large Loads trigger substantial 
transmission upgrades but fail to take and maintain the level of service for which 
they are planned. A crediting mechanism could be used as part of this approach, 
provided that it is structured in a way to hold other customers harmless from costs 
caused by these large load interconnections. Finally, if the Commission does not 
directly hold Qualifying Large Loads directly responsible for 100% of network 
upgrades, it should nevertheless take action to protect other transmission 
customers from bearing such costs, especially if the Qualifying Large Load does 
not attain and maintain the demand for which the upgrades were planned.  
Principle 9: TAPS does not address this principle in these Comments.  
Principle 10: To ensure transmission system reliability, there should be a System 
Support Resource (“SSR”)/Reliability Must Run (“RMR”)-type study for existing 
generating facilities that seek to enter a partial suspension to service a Qualifying 
Large Load at the same location. Other loads should be protected against bearing 
the costs to construct any network upgrades required for such partial suspension. 
In addition, the SSR/RMR-type study in this scenario should include an 
assessment of resource adequacy impacts, which should be made publicly 
available to enable the Commission, state regulators, ratepayers, and other 
stakeholders to understand and take into account those impacts in assessing 
possible additional steps required to maintain resource adequacy.  
Principle 11: In addressing the transmission service implications of Qualifying 
Large Loads and Hybrid Facilities, the Commission must ensure that other 
customers do not pay for the burden that these Qualifying Large Loads and 
Hybrid Facilities place on the transmission system. 
Principle 12: In addressing any ancillary service-related responsibilities of and 
opportunities for Qualifying Large Loads and Hybrid Facilities, the Commission 
must ensure that these large data center loads bear their fair share of costs and that 
other wholesale transmission customers are protected against bearing costs caused 
by such loads. 
Principle 13: The Commission should take action to ensure that ratepayer 
protections that are included in agreements with Qualifying Large Loads or retail 

--- PAGE 5 ---
- 5 - 
 
tariffs before implementation of standardized Qualifying Large Load 
interconnection procedures and agreements (and/or other protections) are applied 
to jurisdictional transmission rates. The Commission should find that 
jurisdictional transmission rates that fail to reflect the impact of ratepayer 
protections imposed by retail arrangements with Qualifying Large Loads are 
unjust, unreasonable and unduly discriminatory, and move forward to promptly 
remedy that discrimination.   
Principle 14: Applicable NERC reliability standards must be complied with. 
However, the Commission should avoid specifically identifying the entity 
responsible for such compliance, as this issue should be left to NERC to 
determine in the first instances along with developing any new or modified 
standards required to mitigate the risks posed by large loads (which NERC is 
actively assessing). The applicability of OATT provisions requires careful 
consideration, especially as to RTO tariffs.  
INTEREST OF TAPS 
TAPS is an association of TDUs in thirty-five states promoting open and non-
discriminatory transmission access.6 As municipal, cooperative, and investor-owned load 
serving entities, TAPS members (and their members) are responsible for providing 
reliable and affordable transmission service to the consumers and businesses that rely on 
them and their members.  
As entities entirely or predominantly dependent on transmission facilities owned 
and controlled by others, TAPS members recognize the importance of a robust 
transmission grid and have long supported Commission initiatives to provide not unduly 
discriminatory open access and to ensure efficient and fair interconnection procedures. 
To that end, TAPS has been actively involved in all major rulemaking proceedings 
 
6 See TAPS, About Us, https://www.tapsgroup.org/about-us/ (last visited Nov. 18, 2025). Jane Cirrincione, 
Northern California Power Agency, is the TAPS Chair; Kevin Gaden, Illinois Municipal Electric Agency, 
is the Vice Chair. Tom Heller is TAPS’s Executive Director. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
- 6 - 
 
regarding the development of the open access transmission tariffs,7 transmission 
planning,8 and interconnection procedures and agreements. 9 
The need to plan for the rapid addition of enormous—yet uncertain—Qualifying 
Large Loads, coupled with the massive transmission upgrades they will trigger, pose 
unprecedented challenges especially given the unique characteristics of these loads.  
Commission efforts to address these complex issues could significantly impact both the 
cost and reliability of transmission service to TAPS members. It is therefore vital to 
TAPS that any reforms developed from this ANOPR are structured to protect other 
transmission customers from the transmission costs, reliability impacts, and resource 
adequacy burdens associated with these loads. It is critical that the Commission act to 
maintain affordability.  
 
7 TAPS filed extensive comments in Promoting Wholesale Competition Through Open Access Non-
discriminatory Transmission Services by Public Utilities; Recovery of Stranded Costs by Public Utilities 
and Transmitting Utilities, Docket No.RM05-25; and Preventing Undue Discrimination and Preference in 
Transmission Service, Docket Nos. RM05-17 & RM05-25, leading to Orders 888 and 890, respectively. 
8 TAPS similarly filed extensive comments in Transmission Planning and Cost Allocation by Transmission 
Owning and Operating Public Utilities, Docket No. RM10-23; and Building for the Future Through 
Electric Regional Transmission Planning and Cost Allocation, Docket No. RM21-17, leading to Orders 
1000 and 1920, respectively. 
9 TAPS also actively participated in Standardization of Generator Interconnection Agreements and 
Procedures, Docket No. RM-02-1; Reform of Generator Interconnection Procedures and Agreements, 
Docket No. RM17-8; and Improvements to Generator Interconnection Procedures and Agreements, Docket 
No. RM22-14, leading to Orders 2003, 845, and 2023, respectively.  

--- PAGE 7 ---
- 7 - 
 
Communications regarding these proceedings should be directed to:10 
Thomas J. Heller 
Executive Director 
TRANSMISSION ACCESS POLICY STUDY 
GROUP 
6224 S. Pinehurst Court 
Sioux Falls, SD 57108 
(605) 376-2797 
Email: theller@tapsgroup.org 
 
Cynthia S. Bogorad 
William S. Huang 
Jeffrey M. Bayne 
Lauren L. Springett 
SPIEGEL & MCDIARMID LLP 
1818 N Street, NW, 8th Floor 
Washington, DC 20036 
(202) 879-4000 
Email: cynthia.bogorad@spiegelmcd.com 
 
william.huang@spiegelmcd.com 
 
jeffrey.bayne@spiegelmcd.com 
 
lauren.springett@spigelmcd.com 
             
COMMENTS 
I. 
REQUEST FOR TECHNICAL CONFERENCE 
The ANOPR recognizes the “unprecedented and current and expected growth of 
large loads seeking to interconnect to the transmission system,” and states that it is 
“necessary to standardize interconnection procedures and agreements for such [large] 
loads, including those seeking to share a point of interconnection with new or existing 
generation facilities (hybrid facilities).”11 The ANOPR therefore presents “potential 
reforms to ensure the timely and orderly interconnection of large loads” to inform the 
Commission’s rulemaking procedures.12  
TAPS agrees that that the rapid growth of Qualifying Large Loads—most notably 
data centers—raises new issues and challenges for fulfilling the Commission’s statutory 
duty to ensure just, reasonable, and not unduly discriminatory transmission service. 
Because of the direct impact on Commission-jurisdictional service, these are not 
 
10 TAPS requests that the Commission waive Rule 203(b)(3) of its Rules of Practice and Procedure, 18 
C.F.R. § 385.203(b)(3), to allow each of the individuals listed below to be placed on the official FERC 
service list in order to avoid delays in receipt of notices and responses to pleadings. 
11 ANOPR P 12.  
12 Id. P 1.  

--- PAGE 8 ---
- 8 - 
 
challenges that the Commission can ignore. Yet these are also complex and multifaceted 
issues, which require considered and deliberate action. It is vital that the Commission 
proceed carefully to ensure that any standard Qualifying Large Load interconnection 
procedures and agreements are just, reasonable, and not unduly discriminatory, and to 
avoid unintended consequences. 
For instance, the Commission adopted standard interconnection procedures and 
agreements for large generators over twenty years ago; but that has been an iterative 
process with changes needed to address new challenges,13 and the actual generator 
interconnection procedures and agreements used vary significantly across the country—
particularly among the Regional Transmission Organizations and Independent System 
Operators (for shorthand, collectively “RTOs”).14 This experience in the generator 
interconnection context, coupled with the new, unique, and evolving challenges posed by 
Qualifying Large Load interconnections, highlights the complexity of the issues raised by 
the ANOPR.  
While the issues raised in the ANOPR are both important and urgent, they raise a 
host of novel questions that may lack a uniform answer. To better inform the 
Commission’s decision-making process, the Commission should hold a technical 
conference on the topics raised in the ANOPR, with the opportunity for follow-up 
comments on that technical conference. Although the Commission previously held a 
 
13 See Improvements to Generator Interconnection Procs. & Agreements, Order No. 2023, 184 FERC 
¶ 61,054, PP 11-17 (“Order 2023”), on reh’g, 185 FERC ¶ 61,063 (2023), on reh’g, Order No. 2023-A, 186 
FERC ¶ 61,199, errata notice, 188 FERC ¶ 61,134 (2024) (summarizing the Commission’s numerous 
major rulemakings on pro forma generator interconnection standards over the past two decades). 
14 See id. P 1764 (continuing to allow, as the Commission had in earlier rulemakings, “non-RTO/ISO 
transmission providers to use the regional differences rationale to seek variations made in response to 
established reliability requirements” and the “‘independent entity variation’ standard” when considering 
such proposals from RTOs).  

--- PAGE 9 ---
- 9 - 
 
technical conference on Large Loads Co-Located at Generating Facilities, Docket 
No. AD24-11, it covered a different and narrower (i.e., limited to hybrid facilities) set of 
issues and was approximately one year ago. A technical conference in this proceeding 
would facilitate the creation of a robust factual record on the much broader range of 
additional issues raised in the ANOPR that reflects the most recent developments in this 
fast-moving area.  
For instance, a technical conference would allow the Commission to better 
understand regional differences relevant to Qualifying Large Load interconnections. 
Although the ANOPR points to the Commission’s pro forma generator interconnection 
procedures and agreement, it does not acknowledge the significant differences in large 
generator interconnection procedures and agreements in RTO versus non-RTO areas, and 
among the RTOs. There may be additional and new regional differences that must be 
understood in the context of addressing Qualifying Large Load interconnections, 
particularly as efforts are already underway in parts of the country to consider these 
issues.15  
A technical conference would also help clarify the scope of this proceeding. As 
noted above, TAPS understands the ANOPR to be specifically focused on large retail 
customers (like large data centers) seeking to connect to the transmission system. But it 
will be important for the Commission to understand how to precisely define Qualifying 
Large Loads for purposes of standardized interconnection procedures and agreements—
 
15 For example, Southwest Power Pool, Inc. (“SPP”) just recently filed a proposed High Impact Large Load 
Process High Impact Large Load Generation Assessment to address large load issues in that region. See 
SPP, Tariff Revisions to Add the High Impact Large Load Processes and High Impact Large Load 
Generation Assessment, Sw. Power Pool, Inc., Docket No. ER26-247 (Oct. 24, 2025), eLibrary 
No. 20251024-5192. 

--- PAGE 10 ---
- 10 - 
 
e.g., what constitutes such large loads, whether there are certain operating characteristics 
relevant to the scope of large data center loads, etc.  
TAPS therefore requests that the Commission hold a technical conference, with 
the opportunity for follow-up comments, at this stage of this proceeding.  
II. 
RESPONSE TO CERTAIN OF THE ANOPR’S PRINCIPLES FOR 
REFORM 
TAPS comments below on many of the ANOPR’s “Principles for Reform.” At the 
outset, however, we emphasize two overarching principles that should guide any 
Commission action with respect to Qualifying Large Load interconnections, whether in 
this proceeding or in case-specific proceedings. 
First, to maintain affordability, the Commission should ensure that any reforms 
for Qualifying Large Load interconnections are protective of wholesale transmission 
customers. As the ANOPR explains, serving these Qualifying Large Loads will require 
significant investment in new and upgraded transmission and generation infrastructure. It 
is essential that Qualifying Large Loads bear the costs and consequences of this buildout, 
and that other customers (i.e., wholesale transmission customers) are not left bearing the 
cost, reliability, or resource adequacy burdens associated with meeting those needs. 
Second, any Qualifying Large Load interconnection reforms should be carefully 
crafted to avoid opportunities for gaming or preferences that are undue—not tied to and 
justified by specific, relevant characteristics. 
In terms of the ANOPR’s individual “Principles for Reform,” TAPS provides the 
following comments:  
1. “First, to avoid even arguably affecting the States’ jurisdiction over 
generation facilities, facilities used in local distribution or only for the 
transmission of electric energy in intrastate commerce, or 
transmissions consumed by the transmitter, the Commission’s 

--- PAGE 11 ---
- 11 - 
 
jurisdiction should be limited to interconnections directly to 
transmission facilities, consistent with the Commission’s seven-factor 
test.”16 
TAPS agrees that the Commission can and should address the impact that 
Qualifying Large Load interconnections have on Commission-jurisdictional transmission 
service. TAPS also agrees that, in doing so, the Commission should avoid the potential of 
intruding on matters subject to state and local jurisdiction. In addition to the items listed 
in Principle 1, the Commission should also ensure that any Qualifying Large Load 
interconnection reforms respect state and municipal jurisdiction over retail service (e.g., 
retail sales of electricity, retail service territories, etc.).  
Respecting state and municipal jurisdiction over retail service is consistent with 
the discussion elsewhere in the ANOPR, which explains that “[e]ven if the large load 
seeking to interconnect to the transmission system is an end-use customer, the proposal 
does not exert jurisdiction over any retail sales to the large load.”17 Avoiding intrusion on 
state and municipal authority over retail service is required by the FPA, which establishes 
Commission jurisdiction over “sale of electric energy at wholesale in interstate 
commerce,”18 and prohibits the Commission from issuing orders “inconsistent with any 
State law which governs the retail marketing areas of electric utilities”19 or ordering retail 
wheeling (except in limited cases).20 
 
16 ANOPR P 18 (footnotes omitted). 
17 Id. P 15. 
18 16 U.S.C. § 824(b)(1) (emphasis added). See also id. § 824k(g) (“No order may be issued under this 
chapter which is inconsistent with any State law which governs the retail marketing areas of electric 
utilities.”); id. § 824k(h).  
19 16 U.S.C. § 824k(g). 
20 Id. § 824k(h).  

--- PAGE 12 ---
- 12 - 
 
Commission precedent further confirms the importance of respecting state 
authority over retail sales and siting, including where transmission facilities may be 
involved. In Order 888, the Commission stated that “even when our technical test for 
local distribution facilities identifies no local distribution facilities for a specific 
transaction, we believe that states have authority over the service of delivering electric 
energy to end users.”21 And the Commission recently addressed the scope of its 
jurisdiction in the context of high impact, large loads, explaining that “the law places 
beyond the Commission’s jurisdiction, and leaves to the states alone, the regulation of 
‘any other sale’—most notably, any retail sale—of electricity.”22  
2. “Second, consistent with the Commission’s pro forma LGIP and 
LGIA, the reforms should only apply to new loads greater than 20 MW 
and, for hybrid facilities, where the load is greater than 20 MW. We 
seek comment on alternative thresholds, including whether such a 
threshold is necessary at all.”23 
TAPS does not take a position in these initial Comments on the whether 20 MW 
is an appropriate size threshold for determining Qualifying Large Loads. But a MW 
threshold for determining what is “large” is not the only characteristic that the 
Commission must address in defining what Qualifying Large Loads would be subject to 
reforms for standardized Qualifying Large Load interconnection procedures and 
agreements.  
 
21 Promoting Wholesale Competition Through Open Access Non-Discriminatory Transmission Services by 
Pub. Utils; Recovery of Stranded Costs by Pub. Utils. & Transmitting Utils., Order No. 888, 75 FERC 
¶ 61,080, 61 Fed Reg. 21,540, 21,626, clarified, 76 FERC ¶ 61,009 (1996), modified, Order No. 888-A, 78 
FERC ¶ 61,220, order on reh’g, Order No. 888-B, 81 FERC ¶ 61,248 (1997), order on reh’g, Order No. 
888-C, 82 FERC ¶ 61,046 (1998), aff’d in part and remanded in part sub nom. Transmission Access Pol’y 
Study Grp. v. FERC, 225 F.3d 667 (D.C. Cir. 2000), aff’d sub nom. New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1 (2002). 
22 Tri-State Generation and Transmission Ass’n, Inc.,193 FERC ¶ 61,070, P 46 (2025) (quoting FERC v. 
Elec. Power Supply Ass’n, 577 U.S. 260, 265 (2016)). 
23 ANOPR P 19. 

--- PAGE 13 ---
- 13 - 
 
As noted above, the ANOPR is specifically focused on data center large loads 
(and similar large industrial or commercial loads), which present unique challenges for 
Commission-jurisdictional services. A precise definition of large data center loads subject 
to reforms adopted in this proceeding is needed to ensure that any different procedures 
required for such loads are tied to specific, relevant characteristics of such loads. TAPS 
requests that this topic be included among the issues discussed at a technical conference.  
3. “Third, to the extent practicable, load and hybrid facilities should be 
studied together with generating facilities. Such an approach will 
allow for efficient siting of loads and generating facilities and thereby 
minimize the need for costly network upgrades. For example, siting a 
large load near or at the same point of interconnection as a new 
generating facility could reduce the network upgrades needed to 
interconnect only the load or only the generating facility.”24 
The use of a single interconnection queue to study Qualifying Large Loads and 
Hybrid Facilities together with generating facilities may facilitate identifying and 
avoiding undue discrimination or preference. Using separate study processes for different 
types of facilities could create opportunities for gaming the system or raise concerns 
about undue discrimination. For example, entities may seek to redesign their projects by 
adding generation or load in order to qualify for a favored study process or avoid others. 
These incentives could distort behaviors in unintended ways and undermine the goal of 
ensuring orderly interconnections.  
A single interconnection queue both for Qualifying Large Loads and Hybrid 
Facilities and for generating facilities, however, has its own set of complications. For 
instance, a single study process would require developing a fair means of allocating the 
costs of network upgrades identified in the study cluster among Qualifying Large Loads, 
 
24 Id. P 20. 

--- PAGE 14 ---
- 14 - 
 
Qualifying Large Hybrid Facilities, and generating facilities—and these details would 
need to be integrated into existing, region-specific interconnection processes and tariffs.  
4. “Fourth, like generating facilities, load and hybrid facilities should be 
subject to standardized study deposits, readiness requirements, and 
withdrawal penalties. These provisions deter speculative projects and 
provide transmission providers with more useful information to more 
accurately forecast demand on their systems. We seek comment on the 
extent to which the existing study deposits, readiness requirements, 
and withdrawal penalties can be adopted. We also seek comment on 
whether additional commitments or financial penalties would be 
appropriate.”25 
TAPS agrees that standardized study deposits, readiness requirements, and 
withdrawal penalties would be beneficial in the context of Qualifying Large Load 
interconnections. As in the context of generator interconnections, these kinds of 
requirements are needed to deter speculative requests that may begin the study process 
but then withdraw, causing delays and restudies.  
For example, the Commission’s most recent update of its generator 
interconnection standards, Order 2023, explained that “the withdrawal of speculative 
interconnection requests that trigger reassessments and possible restudies by the 
transmission provider can delay the timing and increase the cost to interconnect for 
lower-queued interconnection requests.”26 It therefore adopted reforms, such as readiness 
requirements, study deposits, and withdrawal penalties, to “produce efficiencies by, for 
example, reducing speculative interconnection requests and interconnection request 
withdrawals, which in turn will reduce the time and resources spent in interconnection 
studies and restudies thereby decreasing interconnection queue backlogs and delays.”27  
 
25 Id. P 21 
26 Order 2023, P 47 
27 Id. P 59 

--- PAGE 15 ---
- 15 - 
 
Such reforms could have similar benefits in discouraging speculative Qualifying 
Large Load interconnection requests that are withdrawn in the middle of the 
interconnection process, disrupting studies and adversely affecting other interconnection 
customers. But while standardized study deposits, readiness requirements, and 
withdrawal penalties may be necessary and appropriate, they are not sufficient to address 
particular concerns with Qualifying Large Load interconnections.  
Specifically, a major concern with Qualifying Loads interconnections is that they 
may complete the interconnection process and cause major transmission upgrades to be 
constructed, but then fail to either attain, or maintain over a long period of time, the level 
of demand for which the interconnection request was studied. As discussed under 
Principle 8 below, this possibility creates a risk that wholesale transmission customers 
may be saddled with enormous stranded transmission costs. The kinds of standardized 
interconnection requirements listed in Principle 4 do not address this key concern with 
interconnection of Qualifying Large Loads, as this separate concern is not related to the 
Qualifying Large Load withdrawing its interconnection request. Thus, to ensure that 
Qualifying Large Loads interconnections are consistent with its statutory mandate, 
additional Commission action is required (as explained below under Principle 8), to 
protect transmission customers—and, ultimately, other end-use individual and business 
ratepayers—from paying costs they did not cause.  

--- PAGE 16 ---
- 16 - 
 
5. “Fifth, hybrid facilities should be studied based on the amount of 
injection and/or withdrawal rights requested. For example, a hybrid 
facility consisting of a 500 MW load and a 600 MW generating facility 
may seek no withdrawal rights and 100 MW of injection rights.[*] This 
provides incentives for co-location with new generation facilities and 
ensures efficient buildout of the transmission system.”28 
Principle 5 is inextricably linked to Principle 6, which seeks comment on system 
protection facilities/mechanisms/schemes, operational limitations, technical requirements, 
and penalties to prevent unauthorized injections or withdrawals. Any consideration of the 
issues posed under Principle 5 must take into account Principle 6. In addition, it is 
essential that a separate interconnection request be required before any Qualifying Large 
Load Hybrid Facility withdraws or injects more than allowed by the rights for which its 
interconnection was originally studied.  
6. “Sixth, any hybrid interconnection shall be required to install the 
system protection facilities necessary to prevent unauthorized 
injections or withdrawals that exceed the respective rights. We seek 
comment on whether other operational limitations should be 
considered. We also seek comment on the minimum technical 
requirements for such system protection facilities, whether a hybrid 
interconnection customer should be subject to penalties for 
unauthorized injections or withdrawals, how any such penalties should 
be designed, and how such penalties should be allocated to other 
transmission customers.”29 
For Qualifying Large Hybrid Facilities to seek limited injection or withdrawal 
rights based on some netting of on-site Qualifying Large Loads and generation, it is 
essential that they be required to have system protection facilities/mechanisms/schemes 
that are adequate to enforce these limits. That is the fundamental premise for studying 
Qualifying Large Hybrid Facilities based on their requested injection or withdrawal 
 
* Any facility should be able to seek additional rights through a separate interconnection request. 
28 ANOPR P 22. 
29 Id. P 23.  

--- PAGE 17 ---
- 17 - 
 
rights. Operational limitations may also be necessary to further safeguard the reliability 
of the grid and protect service to other customers, as protective equipment may fail. In 
addition, although penalties beyond what is charged for energy or generator imbalance 
are also appropriate, the Commission should not rely on financial incentives to prevent 
the potentially serious consequences to the grid if hybrid facilities exceed their 
injection/withdrawal rights.  
Given the highly technical nature of this issue, and the potential variation among 
different types of large data centers and other industrial loads, this topic would benefit 
from a technical conference to better develop the factual record.  
Finally, Qualifying Large Load and Hybrid Facility interconnections pose 
numerous reliability challenges that go well beyond those raised in Principles 5 and 6. 
These concerns are discussed more in response to Principle 14; but in considering 
Principles 5 and 6, the Commission should not take a narrow view of the reliability-
related challenges associated with these interconnections.  
7. “Seventh, the interconnection study of large loads that agree to be 
curtailable and hybrid facilities that agree to be curtailable and 
dispatchable should be expedited. The system operator’s ability to 
control such facilities through curtailment and/or dispatch must be 
sufficient for the system operator to integrate the facility into both 
operations and system planning. This ensures the timely and orderly 
addition of large loads to the transmission system in a safe, reliable, 
and non-discriminatory manner. We seek comment on whether this 
should be accomplished through a serial interconnection study process 
or by some other means. We also seek comment on appropriate 
deadlines for such an expedited study process, including whether such 
studies can be completed in 60 days.”30 
Qualifying Large Load and Hybrid Facilities should not be permitted to cut the 
queue and receive expedited study treatment if they agree to be curtailable and 
 
30 Id. P 24. 

--- PAGE 18 ---
- 18 - 
 
dispatchable, and any standardized interconnection procedures and agreements for such 
facilities should be designed to not adversely affect the study of other interconnections.  
Creating an expedited process for Qualifying Large Load and Hybrid Facilities 
that agree to be curtailable and dispatchable raises serious concerns about undue 
discrimination and the potential for abuse. Addressing these concerns would raise a host 
of challenging questions (that may not have universally applicable answers)—e.g., how 
much curtailability is needed to qualify for this fast-track treatment? Is that measured in 
the absolute quantity of MW or percentage of load? How often must the Qualifying Large 
Load or Hybrid Facilities agree to be curtailable? For how long? How does that 
curtailment commitment impact the grid over time? How do you ensure that the 
curtailment commitment reduces burdens on the grid rather than merely inviting gaming? 
What happens if the Qualifying Large Load or Hybrid Facility later seeks to reduce its 
curtailability? What are the consequences of failing to curtail after receiving fast-track 
treatment? 
Providing a broad, expedited process for Qualifying Large Load and Hybrid 
Facility interconnections that agree to be curtailable is also contrary to recent 
Commission precedent. Where the Commission has allowed for an expedited study 
process for certain generation interconnections, it has required a narrowly tailored, 
expedited process to address a specific, near-term resource adequacy crisis.  
In MISO, for example, the Commission originally rejected a proposal for an 
Expedited Resource Addition Study (“ERAS”) because (1) “MISO’s proposed Tariff 
places no limit on the number of projects that could be entered in the ERAS process,”31 
 
31 Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 191 FERC ¶ 61,131, P 199 (2025).  

--- PAGE 19 ---
- 19 - 
 
and (2) MISO’s proposal “does not sufficiently describe how the [expedited] process is 
sufficiently targeted to study only interconnection requests needed to meet the anticipated 
shortfall in generating capacity described by MISO.”32 The Commission accepted a 
subsequent revised MISO proposal, finding that the revised proposal:33 
sufficiently addresses these concerns . . . by capping the 
number and size of ERAS projects . . . [and including 
various other] changes [that] ensure the ERAS process is 
sufficiently limited in scope to swiftly address discrete, 
demonstrated resource adequacy needs in a narrowly 
tailored fashion, and on a temporary, time-limited basis. 
Additionally, we note that the limited, one-time design of 
the process weighed significantly on our decision here. 
In approving an Expedited Resource Adequacy Study proposal by Southwest Power Pool, 
Inc. (“SPP”), FERC similarly emphasized that it was approving a “narrowly tailored, 
one-time cluster study process that will address urgent near-term resource adequacy 
needs by processing ERAS interconnection requests in an expedited manner.”34  
Critically, these limited expedited processes were approved only after the 
Commission made fact-intensive, case-specific findings on severe, near-term resource 
adequacy crises in particular regions.35 Moreover, in both the MISO and SPP examples, 
the Commission specifically found that interconnection customers outside the expedited 
 
32 Id. P 201. 
33 Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc.,192 FERC ¶ 61,064, P 195 (2025) (emphasis added).  
34 Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 192 FERC ¶ 61,062, P 162 (2025) (emphasis added).  
35 192 FERC ¶ 61,064, P 82 (concluding that MISO “sufficiently demonstrated that it has near-term 
resource adequacy needs in its region”); Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 192 FERC ¶ 61,062, P 105 (2025) 
(summarizing data that  “support SPP’s arguments that its region faces an urgent resource adequacy 
challenge, which ERAS is intended to address”).  

--- PAGE 20 ---
- 20 - 
 
process (i.e., those proceeding through the existing “normal” interconnection process) 
would not be harmed.36 
These fact-specific, and time-limited, examples stand in stark contrast to an open-
ended, generic expedited process for Qualifying Large Loads that agree to curtail (to an 
undefined extent). Such an expedited process for curtailable Qualifying Large Loads 
would not be narrowly tailored because it is untethered from any specific near-term need 
and lacks protections and limitations on the number of eligible interconnections.  
Equally important, expedited interconnection studies are not needed to encourage 
Qualifying Large Load and Hybrid Facilities to agree to be curtailable. TAPS recognizes 
that there are benefits of having curtailable and dispatchable Qualifying Large Load and 
Hybrid Facilities. But this can (and should) be encouraged through means other than an 
expedited interconnection study process.  
For example, depending on the degree and enforceability of committed 
curtailability and other relevant considerations (noted above), it may be appropriate to 
study Qualifying Large Load and Hybrid Facilities that agree to being curtailable and 
dispatchable differently in the interconnection process. In the generator interconnection 
context, a generator that requests Energy Resource Interconnection Service (“ERIS”)—a 
basic, minimal interconnection service that allows the generator to deliver output using 
the existing firm or non-firm capacity of the transmission system on an as-available 
 
36 192 FERC ¶ 61,062, P 156 (“[W]e find that SPP’s proposal will not harm DISIS [the existing 
interconnection process] interconnection customers because, as discussed above, the LRE Ceiling Capacity 
mechanism limits the impact of the one-time ERAS process to only the capacity needed to address LREs’ 
projected capacity deficiencies by 2030. We find that LRE Ceiling Capacity function provides a further 
restriction to ensure that ERAS is a limited process and to safeguard against harm to DISIS interconnection 
customers.” (emphasis added)); 192 FERC ¶ 61,064, P 263 (rejecting arguments “that interconnection 
customers currently in the DPP queue [i.e., the existing interconnection process] will be harmed as a result 
of” MISO’s revised proposal).  

--- PAGE 21 ---
- 21 - 
 
basis—is studied differently than a generator that requests Network Resource 
Interconnection Service.37 But requesting ERIS does not result in the generator jumping 
the queue or going through a separate, expedited process. The nature of ERIS service, 
however, means that the studies are different and reflect the more limited nature of the 
service. The same could be true of large data center loads that agree to be curtailable to a 
degree that effectively limits the service to which such loads are entitled—they get the 
benefit of a study that reflects the service they are requesting. 
Moreover, there are additional ways to appropriately encourage large data center 
loads to agree to curtail. If a commitment to be curtailable means that fewer network 
upgrades are required to interconnect the Qualifying Large Load, then under Principle 8 
(discussed below) that Qualifying Large Load would be responsible for fewer assigned 
network upgrade costs and face potentially shorter transmission construction timelines. 
That is a significant and meaningful benefit that is distinct from, and does not require, 
any special, expedited study treatment.  
Furthermore, retail programs can also encourage curtailment. Similarly, the 
Commission can ensure that these loads can participate in wholesale markets (e.g., 
demand response programs) to the full extent they are capable, and be eligible to receive 
the benefits associated with doing so. For instance, any contribution of a curtailable 
Qualifying Large Load or Hybrid Facility to addressing resource adequacy should be 
accounted for through relevant resource adequacy regimes. There is no need or 
 
37 In fact, because ERIS does not include any guarantee that transmission capacity will be available, that 
service is even more limited than a Qualifying Large Load or Hybrid Facility that commits to be curtailable 
in certain circumstances. This difference further supports not granting any expedited study treatment for 
Qualifying Large Loads or Hybrid Facilities that commit to be curtailable.  

--- PAGE 22 ---
- 22 - 
 
justification for providing preferential expedited interconnection studies to Qualifying 
Large Loads or Hybrid Facilities that commit to be curtailable. 
8. “Eighth, load and hybrid facilities should be responsible for 100% of 
the network upgrades that they are assigned through the 
interconnection studies. We seek comment on whether such costs 
should be offset through a crediting mechanism and, if so, over how 
many years.”38 
TAPS supports holding Qualifying Large Load and Hybrid Facilities responsible 
for 100% of the network upgrades that they are assigned. Principle 8 is key to addressing 
one of the most important challenges raised by large data centers and other similar loads: 
that, if rolled into wholesale transmission rates, the substantial costs of transmission 
upgrades needed to serve these unique loads gets borne by other customers, particularly if 
the data center demand does materialize or is not sustained as expected. Holding 
Qualifying Large Load and Hybrid Facilities responsible for 100% of the new network 
upgrades that they are assigned through interconnection studies addresses this problem, 
as it ensures that other transmission customers (and the individuals and businesses that 
rely on them for service) will not have to bear the costs caused by these large loads. Such 
action is necessary to ensure just, reasonable, and not unduly discriminatory rates for 
Commission-jurisdictional transmission service.  
Upfront payment for assigned network upgrades by large data center loads, 
without provision for crediting, would implement this goal in a manner most protective of 
other customers. However, it may be acceptable to offset upfront payments by a crediting 
mechanism consistent with the goal of Principle 8 and cost causation provided that 
crediting is structured in a way that holds other transmission customers harmless from 
 
38 ANOPR P 25 (footnote omitted).  

--- PAGE 23 ---
- 23 - 
 
stranded costs. Specifically, the crediting mechanism would have to prevent the 
significant risk of cost shifts to other customers and be tailored to the particular 
characteristics of large data center loads. For instance, if a data center fails to sustain the 
expected level of demand over an extended period of time, it would not be appropriate to 
credit upfront payments when doing so results in other customers ultimately bearing the 
costs of network upgrades originally assigned to the data center.  
Importantly, the Commission cannot achieve this goal by merely copying the 
existing crediting mechanisms used for different purposes in the different context of 
generator interconnections.39 For example, the pro forma Large Generator 
Interconnection Agreement calls for upfront payment by the Interconnection Customer 
for network upgrades;40 credits against transmission service associated with the 
generator;41 full reimbursement to the Interconnection Customer, including FERC 
interest, 20 years after the Commercial Operation Date;42 and Transmission Owner43 roll-
in of credited amounts into rate base as the Interconnection Customer is reimbursed.44 
That crediting scheme for the network upgrades associated with generators was intended 
as a financing mechanism that would result in rolling the full costs of the network 
 
39 Moreover, in practice, there is significant variation on the generation side in how crediting is handled in 
RTO versus non-RTO areas, and among the RTOs. 
40 See Standardization of Generator Interconnection Agreements and Procedures, Order No. 2003-B, 109 
FERC ¶ 61,287, P 10 (2004) (“Order 2003-B”), order on reh’g, Order No. 2003-C, 111 FERC ¶ 61,401 
(2005), aff'd sub nom. NARUC v. FERC, 475 F.3d 1277 (D.C. Cir. 2007), cert. denied, 552 U.S. 1230 
(2008). 
41 Standardization of Generator Interconnection Agreements and Procedures, Order No. 2003-A, 106 
FERC ¶ 61,220, P 615 (2004) (“Order 2003-A”) (subsequent history omitted).  
42 Order 2003-B P 36. 
43 In non-RTO regions, the Transmission Owner and Transmission Provider are the same entity. But in 
RTOs, the independent Transmission Provider is different from the individual Transmission Owners. In this 
section we refer to Transmission Owners as including Transmission Providers in non-RTO regions. 
44 See Order 2003-A, P 299.  

--- PAGE 24 ---
- 24 - 
 
upgrades into the Transmission Owner’s rate base.45 It was not intended to address 
stranded costs risks (much less the unique and substantial stranded transmission cost risk 
posed by Qualifying Large Loads), and it thus will fail to hold other transmission 
customers harmless from transmission upgrade costs specifically caused by Qualifying 
Large Load interconnections. 
For instance, if a Transmission Owner is permitted to roll-in network upgrade 
costs as they get credited, and a data center receives a balloon credit payment after a 
fixed period regardless of its transmission service usage, other transmission customers 
could be left holding the bag. The risk of this cost shift is particularly high for large data 
center loads that trigger very expensive upgrades or that fail to maintain the high demand 
for which they were studied over a long period of time. As this example illustrates, any 
crediting mechanism must account for the unique risks and characteristics of large data 
center loads to protect other customers. 
While TAPS supports requiring upfront payment of 100% of the network upgrade 
costs assigned to Qualifying Large Loads (if necessary, with any credits structured to 
protect other transmission customers), this is not the only way in which Qualifying Large 
Loads can be held responsible for the costs their interconnections cause. To the extent the 
Commission does not adopt reforms that directly hold Qualifying Large Loads 
responsible for 100% of assigned network upgrade costs, it must nevertheless protect 
other transmission customers from bearing costs that they did not cause. Doing so is 
 
45 See id. P 582 (“The Interconnection Customer’s upfront payment, with the associated credits and 
reimbursements, serves simply as a financing mechanism that is designed to facilitate the construction of 
the Network Upgrades.” (emphasis added)); id. P 612 (“[T]he Interconnection Customer’s upfront 
payment, with provisions for the payment of interest, credits and reimbursements, serves not as a rate for 
interconnection or transmission service, but simply as a financing mechanism that is designed to facilitate 
the efficient construction of Network Upgrades.”). 

--- PAGE 25 ---
- 25 - 
 
particularly important in RTO pricing zones and in non-RTO regions where the 
Transmission Owner’s transmission revenue requirement is allocated to transmission 
customers beyond just the Transmission Owner’s native load.  
For example, the Commission has accepted agreements between Dayton Power 
and Light Company d/b/a AES Ohio (“AES Ohio”) and Amazon Data Services, Inc. 
(“Amazon”) that contemplate rolled-in rate treatment of network upgrade costs, but 
protect other customers through “numerous clauses addressing a variety of specific 
scenarios to ensure that Amazon would be responsible for all project costs in the event 
the project is terminated, does not reach Minimum Load, or does not operate for at least 
10 years.”46 AES Ohio contemplates rolled-in treatment of these costs, which could 
expose other customers to these costs—particularly if the data center load did not show 
up and maintain the level of demand expected. Critically, however, AES Ohio committed 
to protecting other transmission customers by stating that any payments it received under 
the protective provisions in its agreement with Amazon would be reflected in its 
transmission cost of service.47 In other words, if the data center failed to have the 
expected level of demand and triggered one of these provisions in the agreement, AES 
Ohio committed to reflecting the payments it received from the data center in its 
Commission-jurisdictional transmission revenue requirement so that other customers are 
protected.  
 
46 Dayton Power & Light Co., 189 FERC ¶ 61,220, P 23 (2024). 
47 AES Ohio, Transmission Customer New or Upgraded Service Construction Service Agreement, 
Transmittal Letter at 9 n.18, Dayton Power & Light Co., Docket No. ER25-192 (Oct. 23, 2024), eLibrary 
No. 20241023-3047 (“In order to avoid the potential for double recovery of Network Upgrade costs, AES 
Ohio agrees that, if the Network Upgrade costs are rolled into its transmission rates under Attachment H-15 
of the PJM OATT and if Amazon subsequently makes a payment to AES Ohio of the Network Upgrade 
costs incurred under Section 8 of the CSA (other than the payment for Project Development costs), AES 
Ohio will appropriately reflect Amazon’s payment in its transmission cost of service under Attachment H-
15.”). 

--- PAGE 26 ---
- 26 - 
 
As AES Ohio explained, adjustments to its Commission-jurisdictional 
transmission revenue requirement in this circumstance is necessary to prevent “the 
potential for double recovery of Network Upgrade costs.”48 Other utilities have similarly 
filed agreements with large, data center loads and committed to reflect any minimum 
payments (i.e., protective measures that apply if the data center load is less than planned 
for) in Commission-jurisdictional rates to protect other customers and avoid double 
recovery.49  
Of course, it is not adequate for the Commission to rely on public utilities to 
voluntarily file agreements with their Qualifying Large Load customers with the 
Commission and voluntarily commit to preventing double recovery through Commission-
jurisdictional rates. Likewise, the adequacy of any such agreements and commitments 
depends on robust requirements that hold the Qualifying Large Load responsible for costs 
if it fails to achieve the level of demand for which it was planned. 
In addition, a number of state commissions are moving forward with retail large 
load tariffs, which provide for varying protections, but may not require the revenues and 
minimum demand levels to be included in wholesale transmission rates.50 If the results of 
 
48 Id.  
49 See, e.g., PEPCO, Transmission Security Agreement between PECO Energy Company and Amazon Data 
Services, Inc., Transmittal Letter 11 n.48, PECO Energy Co., Docket No. ER25-3492 (Sep. 23, 2025), 
eLibrary No. 20250923-5131 (“In order to avoid the potential for double recovery of the costs of 
transmission facilities used to provide delivery services to Amazon, PECO agrees that, if these costs are 
rolled into its transmission rates under Attachment H-7 of the PJM Tariff and if Amazon subsequently 
makes a payment to PECO as a result of a Customer Shortfall Event, PECO will appropriately reflect 
Amazon’s payment in its transmission cost of service under Attachment H-7. However, rate treatment of 
such proceeds should be appropriately addressed in a future PECO proceeding (i.e., its annual formula rate 
updates), not this proceeding.”). 
50 See, e.g., In the Matter of the Application of Ohio Power Co. for New Tariffs Related to Data Ctrs. and 
Mobile Data Ctrs., No. 24-508-EL-ATA, Order, P 132 (Pub. Util. Comm’n of Oh. July 9, 2025), 
(approving a retail data center tariff but concluding that concerns about impacts on wholesale transmission 
customers “are statutorily outside of this Commission’s intrastate purview”), 
https://dis.puc.state.oh.us/ViewImage.aspx?CMID=A1001001A25G09B43531I00509.. 

--- PAGE 27 ---
- 27 - 
 
those protections are dedicated exclusively to the retail customers of the state-regulated 
utility, other transmission customers will be unfairly burdened through unjust, 
unreasonable, and unduly discriminatory transmission rates.51 Because such a result 
would violate the FPA, the Commission should find that failing to reflect the results of 
these protective arrangements with large load customers in Commission-jurisdictional 
rates is unjust, unreasonable, and unduly discriminatory.  
Thus, if the Commission does not require upfront funding of Qualifying Large 
Load driven network upgrades, as contemplated by Principle 8, it must require some 
other mechanism(s) that protects wholesale transmission customers from bearing costs 
caused by Qualified Large Loads. These could include, but are not limited to, requiring 
the filing of agreements with Qualifying Large Loads (as AES Ohio has done), and 
requiring that the impacts of all ratepayer protections that have been included in public 
utilities’ retail tariffs or contracts with Qualifying Large Loads (e.g., minimum load 
requirements, exit fees, or other stranded cost protections) be reflected in Commission-
jurisdictional transmission rates. 
9. “Ninth, to the extent the interconnection customer is not the 
transmission owner, the interconnection customer shall be afforded 
the same (or equivalent) option to build as currently provided to 
generator interconnection customers.”52 
TAPS does not address Principle 9 in these Comments, but may address related 
issues in future filings.  
 
51 Exclusion of wholesale transmission customers from the value of such stranded cost protections could 
produce a price squeeze that unlawfully impacts competition between the public utilities (or their retail 
affiliates) and other transmission customers at the retail level, e.g., competition for industrial customers, 
franchise competition, and yardstick competition. See FPC v. Conway Corp., 426 US 271, 279-82 (1976) 
(holding that the Commission’s predecessor, the Federal Power Commission, is obligated to consider price 
squeeze arguments as part of its duty to prevent unduly discriminatory rates). 
52 ANOPR P 26. 

--- PAGE 28 ---
- 28 - 
 
10. “Tenth, an existing generating facility that seeks to enter a partial 
suspension to serve a new load at the same location must go through a 
system support resource (SSR)/reliability must run (RMR) type study. 
The study must consider system conditions, including forecasted load 
growth, at least three years after the proposed suspension date. The 
partial suspension can only proceed after any network upgrades 
needed to ensure reliability are placed into service. Any such network 
upgrades shall be the responsibility of the generating facility. We 
invite comments on whether and how resource adequacy should be 
considered in the in the SSR/RMR type study.”53 
TAPS agrees that there should be an SSR/RMR-type study for existing generating 
facilities that seek to enter a partial suspension to service a Qualifying Large Load at the 
same location. Such a study is important to ensure reliability of the transmission system.  
TAPS also agrees that that “[t]he partial suspension can only proceed after any 
network upgrades needed to ensure reliability are placed into service.”54 And we agree 
that “[a]ny such network upgrades shall be the responsibility of the generating facility.”55 
As a further corollary, the Commission should make clear that the generator should not 
be entitled to any special arrangements that impose new or different cost obligations on 
load during the time when the existing generating facility is delayed from proceeding to 
partial suspension. For example, in this circumstance, it would not be appropriate to enter 
an SSR/RMR agreement that requires load to bear costs associated with the generator’s 
continued availability. An existing generator seeking partial retirement to serve a 
Qualifying Large Load is not like resources covered by traditional SRS/RMR 
agreements, which seek to retire because they are no longer economic or require 
uneconomical upgrades to comply with regulatory requirements. As a result, there is no 
 
53 Id. P 27. 
54 Id.  
55 Id. 

--- PAGE 29 ---
- 29 - 
 
reason or justification for imposing special, non-market requirements to require load to 
bear costs while any necessary network upgrades are being constructed.  
This SSR/RMR-type study of existing generating facilities proposing to 
exclusively serve new, co-located Qualifying Large Loads should also examine resource 
adequacy/capacity market considerations. The unique size and accelerated timing of new 
large data center loads, coupled with existing resource adequacy challenges (given 
retirements of generation and generation interconnection queue backlogs creating barriers 
to their timely replacement),56 make it vital to understand the resource adequacy and 
capacity market implications of taking generation that now serves regional load and 
instead sequestering it to exclusively serve a co-located large data center load. This 
information should be made public to provide the transparency essential for the 
Commission, state regulators, ratepayers, and other stakeholders to evaluate the resource 
adequacy implications of these arrangements and consider possible actions to maintain 
affordability. 
11. “Eleventh, utilities serving large loads, including those at hybrid 
facilities, should be responsible for transmission service based on their 
withdrawal rights, as that value amount reflects the quantity of 
capacity and energy that is being transmitted across the transmission 
system to the load.”57 
In addressing the transmission service implications of Qualifying Large Loads 
and Hybrid Facilities, the Commission must ensure that other transmission customers do 
not pay for the burden that these Qualifying Large Loads and Hybrid Facilities place on 
the transmission system—including (but not limited to) Qualifying Large Loads and 
 
56 As the Commission is well aware, currently there are significant resource adequacy challenges 
throughout the country, which were explored in the two-day technical conference held in Docket No. 
AD25-7, Meeting the Challenge of Resource Adequacy in the Regional Transmission Organization and 
Independent System Operator Regions. 
57 ANOPR P 28. 

--- PAGE 30 ---
- 30 - 
 
Hybrid Facilities using massive amounts of existing capacity that has been paid for by 
others. This protection must account for the transmission service required to reliably 
serve and provide back-up service for these Qualifying Large Loads and Hybrid 
Facilities.   
12. “Twelfth, utilities serving large loads, including those at hybrid 
facilities, should be responsible for ancillary services based on peak 
demand, without consideration of any co-located generation. Any co-
located generating facilities will similarly be fully compensated for the 
provision of ancillary services.”58 
In addressing any ancillary service-related responsibilities of large data center 
loads, the Commission must ensure that these large data center loads bear their fair share 
of costs and that other wholesale transmission customers are protected against bearing 
costs caused by large data center loads. 
13. “Thirteenth, there must be a plan to implement these proposed 
reforms. We seek comment on appropriate transition plans, including 
the treatment of large load interconnections that are already being 
studied for interconnection.”59 
The Commission must take action to protect other transmission customers from 
these impacts before standardized Qualifying Large Load interconnection procedures and 
agreements (and/or other protections) are implemented. While the specifics of any 
transition plan will need to be tailored to any reforms adopted, it is critical that the 
Commission recognize that the concerns expressed above about wholesale transmission 
customers unfairly bearing the cost, reliability, and resource adequacy burdens of serving 
large data center loads exist today. Qualifying Large Loads interconnections are already 
having an impact on Commission-jurisdictional services, and many more such 
 
58 Id. P 29. 
59 Id. P 30. 

--- PAGE 31 ---
- 31 - 
 
interconnections are currently being studied. These concerns are just as relevant to large 
data center loads currently being studied as they are for future large data center loads.  
In particular, in addition to ensuring that any future standard large data center load 
interconnection procedures and agreements are protective of other customers, the 
Commission should ensure that other customers are protected from harm resulting from 
large data center load interconnections already being studied, as well as earlier data 
center-driven network upgrades that are subject to ratepayer protection provisions by 
contract or retail tariff.  
As discussed with reference to an alternative approach suggested in Principle 8 
above,60 the Commission should find that it is unjust, unreasonable, and unduly 
discriminatory for a public utility to charge rates that fail to reflect the impact of 
ratepayer protections imposed by retail arrangements with Qualifying Large Loads. 
Consistent with that finding, the Commission should require that the impacts of all 
ratepayer protections that have been included in public utilities’ retail tariffs or contracts 
with Qualifying Large Loads (e.g., minimum load requirements, exit fees, or other 
stranded cost protections) be reflected in Commission-jurisdictional transmission rates.61 
Consequently, to the extent such retail-level stranded cost protections apply to Qualifying 
Large Loads whose associated network upgrades will not be covered by upfront funding 
requirements imposed through compliance filings directed in any final rule in this 
proceeding (e.g., those network upgrades currently under study or placed in service), the 
 
60 As discussed in Principle 8, TAPS agrees that the cleanest and most protective approach is to require 
upfront funding of network upgrades associated with interconnecting Qualifying Large Load, which could 
include a crediting mechanism that is designed to hold other customers harmless from these costs.   
61 To the extent transmission rates charges by public utilities (e.g., RTOs) include transmission revenue 
requirements of non-Commission jurisdictional utilities, those transmission revenue requirements should 
also reflect applicable retail level stranded transmission cost protections.  

--- PAGE 32 ---
- 32 - 
 
impact of those retail-level stranded cost protections should be reflected in wholesale 
transmission rates on an ongoing basis given the long-term rate impacts of rolling in these 
network upgrade costs.62 We urge the Commission to take all steps necessary to ensure 
that the above finding and directive are implemented at quickly as possible. 
14. “Fourteenth, utilities serving large loads must meet all applicable 
NERC reliability standards and OATT provisions. Utilities and we 
must be prepared to revise large load interconnection procedures and 
agreements, as necessary. NERC should review its reliability 
standards to determine if new registration categories or new or 
modified reliability standards are required to ensure reliability of the 
BES.”63 
TAPS generally agrees with ANOPR Principle 14. Compliance with applicable 
NERC standards and applicable OATT provisions is essential not only to protect 
reliability, consistent with FPA section 215, but also to fulfill the Commission’s 
obligations under FPA section 206 to maintain just, reasonable, and not unduly 
discriminatory or preferential jurisdictional transmission service. However, the 
applicability of various OATT provisions requires careful consideration and flexibility, 
especially as to RTO tariffs. 
Reliability Standards. TAPS supports NERC’s effort to review reliability 
standards to identify reliability issues related to large data center loads. In August 2024, a 
Large Loads Task Force was established by NERC’s Reliability and Security Technical 
Committee, and in February 2025, the NERC Board of Directors adopted a resolution 
directing NERC to develop an action plan to address large loads. In July 2025, the Task 
Force issued a whitepaper, Characteristics and Risks of Emerging Large Loads, that 
 
62 Many of the minimum payment and other protective provisions may not be triggered until years in the 
future. 
63 ANOPR P 31.  

--- PAGE 33 ---
- 33 - 
 
identifies the unique risks posed by large loads.64 The risks explored included those 
posed by in-front-of-the-meter Large Loads, as well as hybrid and flexible large loads.65 
The Task Force is working on a second whitepaper, Assessment of Gaps in Existing 
Practices, Requirements, and Reliability Standards for Emerging Large Loads, which it 
expects to issue in the first quarter of 2026.  
Principle 14 is worded in terms of holding “utilities serving large loads” 
responsible for compliance with applicable NERC standards.66 As the Commission 
proceeds in this rulemaking process, TAPS urges it to steer away from specifically 
identifying the entities that may be required to be responsible for compliance with NERC 
standards addressing the risks posed by large loads. At the Commission’s October 21, 
2025 Reliability Technical Conference, Mark Lauby, NERC’s Senior Vice President and 
Chief Engineer, testified that NERC is currently considering directly registering large 
loads themselves, noting that NERC has authority to do so.67 Consistent with FPA 
 
64 NERC, Characteristics and Risks of Emerging Large Loads: Large Loads Task Force White Paper (July 
2025), https://www.nerc.com/globalassets/who-we-are/standing-committees/rstc/whitepaper-
characteristics-and-risks-of-emerging-large-loads.pdf (“Whitepaper). See also Pre-Conference Comments 
of the North American Electric Reliability Corporation at 15-16, Reliability Technical Conference, Docket 
No. AD25-8 (Oct. 21, 2025), eLibrary No. 20251021-4002. NERC also identified “high priority risks” 
ranging from long term planning (resource adequacy) and operations/balancing (balancing and reserves) to 
stability (ride through, voltage stability, angular stability and oscillations). Whitepaper at vii & 38. Security 
is another concern. See Whitepaper at 36, 39.  
65 See Whitepaper at 13-14. The Whitepaper (at 1) defined large loads as ““Any commercial or industrial 
individual load facility or aggregation of load facilities at a single site behind one or more point(s) of 
interconnection that can pose reliability risks to the BPS due to its demand, operational characteristics, or 
other factors. Examples include, but are not limited to, data centers, cryptocurrency mining facilities, 
hydrogen electrolyzers, manufacturing facilities, and arc furnaces.”  More specifically defining large loads 
is among the tasks ahead. See Whitepaper at vii, 38.  We therefore use lower case “large loads” in the 
discussion of this principle.   
66 ANOPR P 31 (emphasis added). 
67 See FERC, 2025 Commissioner-Led Reliability Technical Conference at 2:09:50, YouTube (Oct. 21, 
2025), https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z12EVWhA-rw. FPA section 215(b) extends Commission 
jurisdiction over “users” of the bulk power system, in addition to owners and operators. See U.S.C. § 
824o(b)(1). 

--- PAGE 34 ---
- 34 - 
 
section 215,68 the determination as to required registrations, as well as the development 
of proposed standards to mitigate large load related risks, are tasks that should be left to 
NERC in the first interest, recognizing that the Commission will be in a position to 
review any new registration proposed and associated new or modified proposed 
standards.  
As illustrated by the work underway at NERC, the reliability issues associated 
with large loads go beyond the specific issues raised in the ANOPR’s Principles for 
Reform.69 Nor are hybrid and curtailability arrangements a cure-all for the full range of 
reliability challenges related to these loads. These concerns reinforce our comments on 
Principle 7 above, urging the Commission not to give unduly preferential treatment to 
large loads/hybrid facilities simply because their configuration may help address some 
reliability concerns. Ensuring reliability is an overarching requirement that should be 
expected and required of all such large loads and may need to be carefully considered in 
the interconnection process.  
Applicable OATT Provisions. The ANOPR contemplates significant changes to 
public utilities’ interconnection procedures and agreements, which is a substantial and 
complex undertaking—particularly when considering the range of different 
interconnection procedures and agreements in effect across the country. But Qualifying 
Large Loads also implicate Commission-jurisdictional services beyond the 
interconnection service provided under OATTs (e.g., transmission service, as suggested 
 
68 See FPA Sections 215(d) and 215(c), U.S.C. §§ 824o(d), 824o.  
69 NERC’s Reliability and Security Technical Committee is developing a Reliability Guideline on Risk 
Mitigation for Emerging Large Load, which addresses interconnection and interconnection studies, among 
other things), and is expected to be released in the second quarter of 2026. The draft guideline is available 
at NERC, Preliminary Draft of Reliability Guideline: Risk Mitigation for Emerging Large Loads (expected 
May 2026), https://www.nerc.com/globalassets/who-we-are/standing-
committees/rstc/draft_reliabilityguideline_riskmitigationforemerginglargeloads.pdf.  

--- PAGE 35 ---
- 35 - 
 
under Principle 11). The extent to which OATTs vary across the country further 
complicates matters. For instance, RTO tariffs include resource adequacy constructs, 
which are directly affected by the massive and rapid growth of Qualifying Large Loads. 
Consequently, the question of what OATT provisions are “applicable” to public 
utilities serving large loads is both challenging and a moving target, as RTOs and other 
public utilities are attempting to grapple with the growth of Qualifying Large Loads.  
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons set forth above, the Commission should consider these Comments 
as it moves forward with this important effort. 
Respectfully submitted, 
/s/ Cynthia S. Bogorad 
Cynthia S. Bogorad 
William S. Huang 
Jeffrey M. Bayne 
Lauren L. Springett 
Attorneys for Transmission Access Policy 
Study Group 
Law Offices of: 
SPIEGEL & MCDIARMID LLP 
1818 N Street, NW 
8th Floor 
Washington, DC 20036 
(202) 879-4000 
November 21, 2025 
 
