--- PAGE 1 ---
 
1 
 
                        COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA  
  
  
PENNSYLVANIA PUBLIC UTILITY COMMISSION  
COMMONWEALTH KEYSTONE BUILDING  
400 NORTH STREET, THIRD FLOOR 
  
HARRISBURG, PENNSYLVANIA 17120  
  
November 21, 2025 
  
Via Electronic Filing  
 
The Honorable Debbie-Anne A. Reese, Secretary  
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  
888 First Street, N.E.  
Washington, D.C.  20426  
 
 
Re:  
Comments of the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission; Docket 
No. RM26-4  
  
Dear Secretary Reese:  
 
Please find for e-filing the Comments of the Pennsylvania Public Utility 
Commission (PA PUC) to a Notice of Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANOPR) 
at Docket No. RM26-4. 
 
Copies of this document have been served upon all parties designated on the 
Commission’s official service list, in accordance with Rule 2010 of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice and Procedure.  
 
If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact me.  
 
Respectfully submitted,  
  
/s/ Elizabeth H. Barnes 
Elizabeth H. Barnes  
Deputy Chief Counsel   
Pennsylvania Public Utility  
Commission   
(717)772-5408  
ebarnes@pa.gov 
 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
2 
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
Ensuring the Timely and Orderly 
 
) 
Docket No. RM26-4 
Interconnection of Large Loads   
 
) 
Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking 
) 
 
 
 
 
COMMENTS OF THE PENNSYLVANIA PUBLIC UTILITY COMMISSION 
 
On October 23, 2025, the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) directed the Federal 
Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC or Commission) to develop an Advanced Notice 
of Proposed Rulemaking(ANOPR) related to the interconnection of large loads and 
directed FERC to take final action no later than April 30, 2026. Subsequently, FERC 
established a new docket (RM26-4) to consider DOE’s  proposed ANOPR and issued a 
Notice Inviting Comments.   The Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (PA PUC) 
thanks FERC and the DOE for their engagement in this critical issue of large load 
interconnection.  Large load interconnection is rightly recognized as a matter of national 
importance.  The integration of that large load must be planned in an orderly fashion, 
respecting physical limits that our grid faces both in the context of the facilities used for 
transmission and distribution as well as the area of system stability, energy prices, and 
resource adequacy.  So too, jurisdictional lines must be respected, not just for the sake of 
history and precedents, but because our near century-long bright line of jurisdiction 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
3 
 
provides major economic development benefits to our nation and individual states 
through predictability. 
With that in mind, the PA PUC submits the following comments regarding the 
jurisdiction as well as likely violations of the major questions doctrine and non-
delegation doctrine.  Although we believe that in many respects the ANOPR goes beyond 
what is legally and economically justified, there remains opportunity for further 
discussion. 
 
I. 
Background 
On October 23, 2025, the Secretary of the United States Department of Energy 
issued a letter pursuant to section 403 of the Department of Energy Organization Act 
directing FERC to initiate rulemaking procedures and consider the ANOPR presenting 
reforms to ensure the timely and orderly interconnection of large loads, defined as greater 
than 20 MW, to the transmission system.  The Secretary requested that FERC take final 
action by April 30, 2026. The ANOPR proposes, inter alia, that FERC assert jurisdiction 
over the interconnection of large loads to the grid.   
The proposed ANOPR states that standardized interconnection procedures and 
agreements for large loads, including hybrid facilities that share a point of 
interconnection with new or existing generation facilities, are necessary due to the 
unprecedented growth of large loads seeking to interconnect to the transmission system. 
 
II. 
Jurisdiction 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
4 
 
A. 
Federal 
Electric industry regulation is “one of the most important of the functions 
traditionally associated with the police power of the States.” Ark. Elec. Coop. Corp. v. 
Ark. Pub. Serv. Comm’n, 461 U.S. 375, 377 (1983).   The Commission’s authority 
includes regulation of rates and services of interstate transmission of electricity and 
interstate electric sales at wholesale. 16 U.S.C. § 824(b)(1).  Section 201(b) of the 
Federal Power Act (FPA) grants the states exclusive jurisdiction “over facilities used for 
the generation of electric energy or over facilities used in local distribution or for the 
transmission of electric energy in intrastate commerce, or over facilities for the 
transmission of electric energy consumed wholly by the transmitter.”  16 U.S.C. § 824(b).  
Recommending  reforms to all new loads greater than 20 MW, including for 
hybrid facilities and that load and hybrid facilities be studied together with generating 
facilities, appears to propose the expansion of Federal authority on a permanent basis 
through a rulemaking without the necessary statutory authority delegated to the 
Commission by Congress.   
Pure load interconnection is squarely within the realm of local distribution 
reserved to the states under the Federal Power Act.  The Commission has already 
recognized this.  In Order 888, the Commission made clear that although many loads 
connect directly to high-voltage facilities, the ‘last mile’ of interconnection always 
includes some local distribution facilities, even if the facilities that constitute local 
distribution are not obvious.  “[W]hile we believe in most cases there will be identifiable 
local distribution facilities subject to state jurisdiction, we also believe that even where 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
5 
 
there are no identifiable local distribution facilities, states nevertheless have jurisdiction 
in all circumstances over the service of delivering energy to end users.”1   
The determination that the ‘last mile’ of delivering energy is a state jurisdictional 
facility is consistent with the Order 888 seven-factor test.  The seven-factor test provides 
guidance for when facilities should be classified as local distribution under state 
jurisdiction or transmission under federal jurisdiction.  Specifically, “(1) local distribution 
facilities are normally in close proximity to retail customers; (2) local distribution 
facilities are primarily radial in character; (3) power flows into local distribution systems 
and rarely, if ever, flows out; (4) when power enters a local distribution system, it is not 
reconsigned or transported on to some other market; (5) power entering a local 
distribution system is consumed in a comparatively restricted geographic area; (6) meters 
are based at the transmission/local distribution interface to measure flow into the local 
distribution system; and (7) local distribution systems will be of reduced voltage.”2 
Aside from the final factor, last mile facilities used exclusively for delivering 
energy sold for end-use to customers satisfy all the factors to be classified as local 
distribution.  Because of the extraordinary size of some data center end uses, the final 
factor may no longer reflect the true nature of the facilities.  The Commission should be 
circumspect in making these jurisdictional determinations and respect its prior rulings 
 
1 Promoting Wholesale Competition Through Open Access Non-discriminatory Transmission Services by Public 
Utilities, RM95-8 (Order issued April 24, 1996) (Order 888). 
2 Sw. Power Pool, Inc. GridLiance High Plains LLC, 180 FERC ¶ 61,192, 62,307 (2022) (summarizing seven-factor 
test). 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
6 
 
that if “no wholesale transaction is being conducted over [a facility], … there is no 
Commission-jurisdictional use of the facilities”.3 
The ANOPR proposes an unprecedented expansion of Federal jurisdiction and 
potential intrusion on the states’ historic retail regulatory authority under the Federal 
Power Act, introducing potential confusion, unintended customer consequences, and/or 
legal uncertainty where none currently exists. State commissions are responsible for 
ensuring resource adequacy and the reliability and affordability of electric service for 
retail customers.  
So too, FERC-mandated large load interconnections without sufficient available 
generation capacity could threaten reliable power service to existing retail customers, as 
grid operators may lack the resources needed to maintain system stability during peak 
demand or extreme weather events.  FERC-mandated large load interconnections, 
including necessary transmission upgrades and other infrastructure investments, may 
unfairly burden retail ratepayers if not properly allocated. The proposals in the ANOPR 
could limit a state’s ability to implement protective measures, such as large load tariffs4 
and flexibility requirements.  Depending on design, they may prevent a state from 
incentivizing large loads to invest in local communities, including through programs such 
 
3 PJM Interconnection, LLC, 116 FERC ¶ 61,102, 61,534 (2006). 
4 Recently, the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission adopted a Settlement In the Matter of the Verified Petition of 
Indiana Michigan Power Company for Approval of Modifications to its Industrial Power Tariff – Tariff I.P. at Case 
No. 46097.  In the Indiana Michigan Power case, settling parties including Google, Amazon Data Services, and 
DCC agreed the modification to Tariff I.P. should apply to customers taking service on Indiana Michigan Power 
(I&M) Tariff I.P. with contract capacity greater than or equal to 70 MW at an individual plant or 150 MW on an 
aggregated basis.  In addition, the Public Service Commission of West Virginia has recently adopted a Settlement 
Appalachian Power Company and Wheeling Power Company: Application for Approval of Revisions to Schedules 
LCP and IP - Case No. 24-061 1 -E-T-PW.  Appalachian Power Company and Wheeling Power Company have 
adopted the exact same aggregation definition.   

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
7 
 
as facilitating large loads to interconnect more rapidly while bringing direct economic 
benefits to the community.  
State regulatory authorities have the expertise and authority to balance economic 
development associated with large loads with the protection of retail customers. Federal 
overreach could undermine these efforts, disrupt orderly grid planning, and lead to further 
resource adequacy and affordability challenges.   
The ANOPR proposes to exceed the Commission’s narrow authority within its 
regulatory sphere of regulation under the FPA and would intrude upon state authority 
over distribution, generation, and intrastate transmission service.  
B. 
Pennsylvania 
The PA PUC has existing statutory authority and has promulgated regulations 
regarding siting and construction of new transmission facilities and the relocation of 
existing transmission facilities needed to accommodate large loads. 66 Pa.C.S. §§ 1101 
and 1102; 52 Pa. Code Chapter 57, Subchapter G. The PA PUC offers stakeholders, 
including landowners subject to applications for condemnation of their lands, due process 
before permitting and siting high voltage transmission lines that traverse from points to 
points within Pennsylvania, including to the borders with adjacent states.   
Pennsylvania is presently working to address large load interconnection.  The PA 
PUC conducted an En Banc Hearing on Interconnection and Tariffs for Large Load 
Customers, PUC Docket No. M-2025-3054271, on April 24, 2025, to explore the 
growing impact of large load electric customers on Pennsylvania’s electric grid. Overall, 
there was broad consensus among the witnesses and commenters regarding the 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
8 
 
fundamental principle of cost causation and the need to protect ratepayers from 
unreasonable cost shifting. There was general agreement that large load customer 
guidance is needed in the areas of interconnection costs, interconnection studies, 
minimum contract terms, exit fees, and collateral, among other areas.  On November 6, 
the PA PUC issued a Tentative Model Tariff for Customers at or over 50 MW 
Individually or 100 MW in the Aggregate (Large Load Customer).  Comments have been 
requested and are being received on this Tentative Order.  Thus, the PA PUC is already 
addressing common issues involved with the interconnection of large loads to the grid. 
The PA PUC submits that states are in the best position as electric retail service 
regulators to determine the reasonableness of electric retail rate structures regarding the 
distribution of service, including service to customers with peak loads over 20 MW.  In 
fact, such determinations are exclusively within each state’s police powers. 
 
III.  
Violations of the major questions doctrine. 
 
Most of the recommended rules intrude into an area traditionally regulated by the 
states and involve significant political and economic issues regulating the nationwide 
interconnected transmission grid.   
The ANOPR’s fundamental premise to create interconnection authority within the 
Commission for all loads on the basis of their impact on wholesale rates is impermissible 
under the Federal Power Act.  As the Commission recently held: “retail rate regulation is 
impermissible “no matter how direct, or dramatic” a proposal’s impact on wholesale 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
9 
 
rates.”5  A corollary of this, consistent with prior Commission precedent,6 is that FERC 
regulation of a facility used solely for the delivery of end-use sales is not permissible no 
matter how dramatic the effect of the interconnection on wholesale rates. 
The ANOPR exacerbates the issue by targeting reforms to all new loads greater 
than 20 MW.  Even more, the rulemaking does not address aggregate thresholds and 
probably captures commercial/industrial customers other than data centers.  The impact 
of capturing all smaller non-data-center facilities above the 20 MW threshold would have 
a seismic impact on industrial load interconnections that have been well-functioning for 
decades.   
The proposed rules conflict with state – approved tariffs for large industrial load 
that already address large load industrial tariffs with individual and aggregate megawatt 
load thresholds different from the 20 MW (individual) proposed in this rulemaking. Thus, 
the rule seeks to impose a federal standard that will have substantial political and 
economic impact among the 50 states and Washington D.C.  
The recommendations that (1) load and hybrid facilities be studied together with 
generating facilities for efficient siting and be subject to standardized study deposits, 
readiness requirements, and withdrawal penalties; (2) hybrid facilities be studied based 
on the amount of injection and/or withdrawal rights requested to provide incentives for 
co-location with new generation facilities; (3) any hybrid interconnection install the 
system protection facilities necessary to prevent unauthorized injections or withdrawals 
 
5 Tri-State Generation and Transmission Association, Inc., Docket No. ER25-3316, ¶50 (Order issued October 27, 
2025). 
6 PJM Interconnection, LLC, 116 FERC ¶ 61,102, 61,534 (2006) (see discussion of Order 888 above). 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
10 
 
that exceed the respective rights; (4) financial penalties for load facilities and hybrid 
facilities; (5) expedited consideration of interconnection studies of large loads and hybrid 
facilities that agree to be curtailable and dispatchable; and (6) that load and hybrid 
facilities should be responsible for 100% of the network upgrades that are assigned 
through the interconnection studies all have widespread economic and political 
ramifications.  When an agency, like FERC, issues a rule of significance, the major 
questions doctrine requires clear congressional authorization. There is no clear 
congressional authorization for the action being taken by the Commission, if taken to the 
broadest extent of the ANOPR.7  The rules proposed in the ANOPR would encroach on 
the traditional state prerogatives of transmission, distribution, and generation siting, as 
well as retail electric service, that Congress left to the states in the FPA. The erosion of 
state authority is inconsistent with the FPA’s principle of cooperative federalism and 
would invite FERC to impose unjust, unreasonable, and unduly discriminatory rates on 
customers among the states.  That erosion would also undermine the predictability on 
which our grid has long-relied. 
The seismic impact and substantial deviation from historical treatment runs 
headlong into the prohibitions of the major questions doctrine.  In West Virginia v. EPA, 
597 U.S. 697 (2022), the Supreme Court clearly held that based on the history and 
 
7 West Virginia v. EPA, 597 U.S. 697 (2022). (Congress did not grant the Environmental Protection Agency in 
Section 111(d) of the Clean Air Act the authority to devise emissions caps based on the generation shifting approach 
the Agency took in the Clean Power Plan.  Under the major questions doctrine there are extraordinary cases in 
which the history and breadth of the authority the agency has asserted and economic and political significance of 
that assertion, provide a reason to hesitate before concluding that Congress meant to confer such authority.  The 
EPA could not point to clear congressional authorization for the authority it claimed).     

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
11 
 
breadth of the authority the agency has asserted and economic and political significance 
of that assertion, courts are required to search for a clear Congressional authorization 
before granting agencies that extraordinary authority.  Under Loper Bright, agencies are 
not granted deference in the assertion of that Congressional authorization.  Loper Bright 
Enterprises v. Raimondo, 603 U.S. 369 (2024).  There is no clear Congressional 
authorization to expand FERC jurisdiction to pure load interconnection of any size. 
However, if limited to hybrid interconnections of load and generation at the same 
point-of-interconnection, there may be greater room for discussion.  As recognized in 
Order 888, facilities may be Commission jurisdictional if power flows in both directions 
over the facility.  The Commission controls generator interconnection at the transmission 
level under Order 2003 and Order 2023.  Further guidance on paired interconnection 
studies could be welcome, subject to a more detailed proposed rule and opportunity for 
comment, if that guidance minimized the need for transmission buildout and 
interconnection study timelines due to the nature of that paired interconnection.  For 
example, The Brattle Group has suggested that paired interconnections could shorten 
study timelines through modified assumptions and operational solutions.8 
 
VI. 
Conclusion 
The PA PUC welcomes further discussion of interconnection reforms from the 
Commission, subject to the comments herein regarding jurisdiction. 
 
8 Slide 5, 17, Eolian/Brattle BIGPAL, PJM CIFP on Large Load Additions, available at https://www.pjm.com/-
/media/DotCom/committees-groups/cifp-lla/2025/20251014/20251014-item-03b---eolian-brattle-proposed-
options.pdf (last accessed November 19, 2025). 

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
12 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
/s/ Elizabeth H. Barnes 
Elizabeth H. Barnes, Deputy Chief Counsel 
Kriss E. Brown, Executive Deputy Chief Counsel 
Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission 
P.O. Box 3265 
Harrisburg, PA 17105-3265 
Telephone: 717-787-5000 
ebarnes@pa.gov 
kribrown@pa.gov  
 
 
Counsel for the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission 
 
 
Dated: November 21, 2025 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 13 ---
 
13 
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE  
I HEREBY CERTIFY that I am on this date serving a copy of the foregoing document 
upon each person designated on the official service list compiled by the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission in accordance with the requirements of Rule 2010 of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice and Procedure.  
  
 
  
Respectfully submitted,  
 
 
Elizabeth H. Barnes  
 
Elizabeth H. Barnes  
Deputy Chief Counsel  
Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission  
400 North St., 3rd Floor 
Harrisburg, PA  17120  
Tel: (717) 787-5000  
  
Dated:  November 21, 2025  
 
 
