--- PAGE 1 ---
1 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
  
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate 
Transmission System 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
COMMENTS OF THE SOLAR ENERGY INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION 
 
The United States is in a critical race to achieve global dominance in artificial 
intelligence (AI). Sustaining and enhancing America’s global AI dominance will promote 
“human flourishing, economic competitiveness, and national security.”1 But we need the power 
to achieve these goals. Rapid innovations in AI and data center infrastructure have created 
significant, and often unexpected, increases in electricity demand.2 After years of flat power 
demand, the grid is now seeing significant increases in load growth. The advanced computing 
industry is poised for rapid expansion, yet the energy sector and the regulatory frameworks 
governing it have struggled to keep pace. The interconnection of these new large loads to the 
grid is governed by a patchwork of regulations and business practices that fail to deliver accurate 
load projections or encourage the development of generation to provide energy to those new 
loads.  
As Department of Energy Secretary Wright recognized in his October 27, 2025 letter to 
the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (the Commission), AI infrastructure must be able to 
 
1 Executive Order 14179, “Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence” (Jan. 23, 2025). 
2 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Data Center Planning & Need Assessment Update (Jan. 10, 2023), 
https://www.pjm.com/-/media/committees-groups/committees/teac/2023/20230110/item-04---data-center-load-
planning.ashx Strategic Industries Surging: Driving US Power Demand, Grid Strategies, (2024), 
https://gridstrategiesllc.com/wp-content/uploads/National-Load-Growth-Report-2024.pdf. Chairman Rosner’s Letter 
to the RTOs/ISOs on Large Load Forecasting, (Sept. 18, 2025) https://www.ferc.gov/news-events/news/chairman-
rosners-letter-rtosisos-large-load-forecasting. See, e.g., post-Technical Conference comments submitted in FERC 
Docket No. AD24-11-000, including CEBA December 9 Post-Technical Conference Comments at 12-13; DCC 
December 9 Post-Technical Comments at 12; Google December 9 Post-Technical Conference Comments at 7-8; 
Wilson Energy Economics December 9 Post-Technical Conference Comments at 2, 7. 

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
 
interconnect to the grid efficiently, fairly, and expeditiously.3 Developers of AI infrastructure 
need clear and flexible rules to ensure the orderly interconnection of those loads while 
maintaining the reliability of the grid. Without clear rules, the United States risks ceding its 
global AI dominance. 
Pursuant to the October 27, 2025 Notice Inviting Comments,4 the Solar Energy Industries 
Association (SEIA) submits these comments on Secretary Wright’s proposed advanced notice of 
proposed rulemaking regarding the Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate 
Transmission System.5 The comments and recommendations below represent the experiences of 
a wide range of member companies who are working with hyperscalers to develop and build the 
resources that will serve this new demand. SEIA’s members are working with hyperscalers to 
develop the generation that will be able to serve these new loads and appreciate the opportunity 
to provide comments that will assist the Commission in establishing clear procedures on how the 
new load and generation can interconnect to the transmission system.  
 
I. 
NEED FOR REFORM: ADDRESSING INACCURATE LOAD PROJECTIONS 
SEIA urges the Commission to issue a rulemaking that would standardize the 
interconnection procedures and agreements for new large loads, including loads that seek to 
locate with, or near, new generation. As explained above, energy-intensive AI infrastructure is 
developing at a much faster pace than the development of the generation needed to serve it.6 
 
3 Secretary of Energy’s letter re the Interconnection of Large Loads Pursuant to the Secretary's Authority under 
Section 403 of the Department of Energy Organization Act, Docket No. RM26-4 (Oct. 27, 2025). 
4 Notice Inviting Comments, Docket No. RM26-4 (Oct. 27, 2025). 
5 Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Notice Inviting Comments, Docket No. 
RM26-4 (Oct. 27, 2025) (“Proposed ANOPR”). 
6 See Long-Term Load and DER Forecasting, Energy Systems Integration Group, at 29 (2025) 
https://www.esig.energy/long-term-load-and-der-forecasting/. (“Data center load growth is the single largest 
component of growth in utility load forecasts and is expanding at an unprecedented rate, with forecasts ranging 
between 65 GW and 90 GW of new load by 2029”); Grid Strategies, supra note 2 at 6 (“It may take only one or two 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
 
However, the extent to which AI infrastructure development is outpacing new generation is 
unclear. 
Grid operators today face a fundamental challenge: The impacts of new data center loads 
are difficult to understand, and existing forecasting practices are ill-equipped to capture them 
accurately. Data centers often submit multiple interconnection requests for the same project,7 and 
some hyperscalers have acknowledged engaging with multiple utilities simultaneously for a 
single facility.8 Vertically integrated utilities lack incentives to scrutinize load requests, since 
they stand to benefit financially from capital investments that expand their rate base.9 These 
duplicative load requests are then used to develop utility load forecasts, which in turn inform 
wholesale rates and transmission planning, raising questions about the transparency and accuracy 
of those processes.10  
Compounding these challenges is the fact that data center loads are not uniform. The 
energy needs of a new data center depend heavily on its operational profile and proximity to, or 
even co-location with, generation.11 Some large loads can operate islanded from the grid and 
 
years to connect new load to the grid, while it may take over four years to bring new generation online and even 
longer to build new transmission.”). 
7 Uncertainty and Upward Bias are Inherent in Data Center Electricity Demand Projections, London Economics 
Inc., at 8 (July 7, 2025), available at https://www.selc.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/LEI-DataCenter-Final-
Report-07072025-2.pdf.  
8 Chairman Doug Scott, Illinois Commerce Commission at 5, (May 27, 2025), available at 
https://www.ferc.gov/media/chairman-doug-scott-illinois-commerce-commission (“[W]e need to have a better 
understanding of what load growth is real…The RTOs get their load forecasts from the utilities; however, every 
utility is different in how they establish their load forecast. Some of the hyperscalers admit to talking to multiple 
utilities at any given time. It is quite possible that there is double-counting in forward-looking load forecasts, 
especially given that these data center projects are developed under non-disclosure agreements. Recently, certain 
data center projects have been cancelled, undermining previous load projections.”). 
9 Uncertainty and Upward Bias are Inherent in Data Center Electricity Demand Projections, London Economics 
Inc., at 8 (July 7, 2025), available at https://www.selc.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/LEI-DataCenter-Final-
Report-07072025-2.pdf. 
10 Electricity Customer Alliance, et al., Joint Letter to FERC re Load Forecasting, at 1 (May 30, 2025), 
https://static1.squarespace.com/static/61cb4ad27eb866577fe066fe/t/683dad0998acf67ccdbb63e2/1748872457167/Jo
int+Customer+Letter+to+FERC+re+Load+Forecasting+5.30.25.pdf.  
11 Clean Energy Buyers Association Pre-filed comments at 5, Docket No. AD24-11; Talen Energy Pre-Filed 
Comments at 1-3, Docket No. AD24-11 (“Talen has been . . . safely operating co-located loads for over 18 
months.”).  

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
 
accept the risk of outages, while others require firm backup service. Certain loads are flexible 
and can respond to price signals or participate in demand response programs. Each arrangement 
“is going to be a snowflake…they are going to have their own design, their own concerns, their 
own issues, their own configurations that they would like to meet.”12 
A standardized interconnection process can help solve that. By establishing uniform 
procedures that include readiness requirements, such as deposits and site control, transmission 
providers can better identify viable large-load projects and reduce speculative requests.13 Further, 
requiring more information regarding load profile will allow utilities with load serving 
obligations to make more accurate load projections. Improving the accuracy of load projections 
will, in turn, support more effective transmission planning and generation development. Load 
forecasts are a critical input into Commission-jurisdictional wholesale market operations and 
influence how prices are formed. When forecasts reflect realistic expectations of future demand, 
they help send accurate price signals to both suppliers and consumers, supporting the 
development of a reliable and cost-effective grid. Accurate load forecasting is essential to ensure 
that rates remain just and reasonable. 
 
II. 
ESTABLISHING A LEGALLY DURABLE JURISDICTIONAL STATEMENT OVER THE 
INTERCONNECTION OF LARGE LOADS 
The Proposed ANOPR provides four legal theories under which the Commission could 
assert jurisdiction over large load interconnections.14 As written, each theory either fails to 
justify, or provides a weak justification for, the Commission’s authority in this area. To be clear, 
 
12 Transcript, Technical Conference Regarding Large Loads Co-Located at Generating Facilities at 61, Docket No. 
AD-24-11 (Nov. 1, 2024). (statement of Aubrey Johnson, Vice President, System & Resource Planning, 
Midcontinent Independent System Operator). 
13 See e.g. Improvements to Generator Interconnection Procs. & Agreements, Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054, 
at P 691, order on reh 'g, 185 FERC ¶ 61,063 (2023). 
14 See Proposed ANOPR PP 13-16. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
 
SEIA agrees that the Commission has the authority to issue a rulemaking to standardize the 
process for interconnecting large loads to the transmission system and urges the Commission to 
do so while recognizing state jurisdictional boundaries. However, the Commission’s exercise of 
that authority must be grounded in a clear and legally durable jurisdictional foundation.  
 
A. 
The Jurisdictional Statement Flaws 
The first jurisdictional theory in the Proposed ANOPR, merely analogizes large load 
interconnection to generator interconnection, stating that both are “critical component[s] of open 
access transmission service.”15 The ANOPR provides no further explanation as to why the 
processes are similar, why large load interconnection is a “critical component of open access 
transmission service,” or even whether large loads require transmission service. But even 
assuming the processes are similar, this theory fails to acknowledge a critical difference between 
a transmission owning utility providing interconnection service to an unaffiliated generator 
versus providing interconnection service to a large load. Unaffiliated generators are competitors 
to vertically integrated transmission-owning utilities that also own generation.16 Without 
standardized interconnection procedures, utilities would have both the incentive and ability to 
discriminate against their competitors.17 After finding that interconnection is a critical component 
of open access transmission service, the Commission stated that a standardized interconnection 
process would limit the opportunities for transmission-owning utilities to discriminate against 
 
15 Proposed ANOPR at P 13. 
16 Standardization of Generator Interconnection Agreements & Procs., Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103, at P 5 
(2003), order on reh'g, Order No. 2003-A, 106 FERC ¶ 61,220, order on reh'g, Order No. 2003-B, 109 FERC ¶ 
61,287 (2004), order on reh'g, Order No. 2003-C, 111 FERC ¶ 61,401 (2005), aff'd sub nom. Nat'l Ass'n of Regul. 
Util. Comm'rs v. FERC, 475 F.3d 1277 (D.C. Cir. 2007). 
17 Order No. 2003 at P 4. See also Order No. 2003 at P 677 (describing the independent entity variation for RTOs, 
which, as grid operators, are not incentivized to discriminate against unaffiliated generator owners.). 

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
 
their competitors in the generation market.18  Large loads, however, are not competitors to 
transmission-owning utilities; they are customers. Transmission Owners are financially 
motivated to attract large loads to their service territories and to provide favorable 
interconnection terms and conditions. The underlying concern about undue discrimination that 
justified Order No. 2003 does not apply in the same way to the interconnection of large load. 
Therefore, a mere analogy between large load interconnection and generator interconnection is 
insufficient to justify Commission jurisdiction. 
The second jurisdictional theory relies on the argument that interconnections of large 
loads constitute a “practice directly affecting”19 Commission-jurisdictional wholesale electricity 
rates under the Federal Power Act, citing FERC v. Electric Power Supply Association (EPSA).20 
In EPSA, the Supreme Court upheld Order No. 719, which required wholesale market operators 
to accept demand response bids from aggregators of electricity consumers, except where 
prohibited by state regulators.21 The Court held that the Commission had the authority to regulate 
such participation because it directly affected wholesale market prices. The Proposed ANOPR’s 
reliance on FERC v. EPSA overlooks a key difference between demand response and large load 
interconnections. Order No. 719 expanded wholesale market participation by allowing a new 
type of resource—demand response—to bid directly into wholesale markets.22 The Court 
recognized that wholesale market operators employ demand response bids in competitive 
auctions that balance wholesale supply and demand and thereby set wholesale prices.23 The 
 
18 Order No. 2003 at P 12. 
19 Proposed ANOPR at P 14. 
20 Id.  
21 FERC v. Elec. Power Supply Ass'n, 577 U.S. 260 (2016).  
22 Wholesale Competition in Regions with Organized Electric Markets, Order No. 719, FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 
31,281 (2008).  
23 FERC v. Elec. Power Supply Ass'n, 577 U.S. 260, 277, 136 S. Ct. 760, 774, 193 L. Ed. 2d 661 (2016), as revised 
(Jan. 28, 2016).  

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
 
Court stated that the Commission “has the authority—and, indeed, the duty—to ensure that rules 
or practices ‘affecting’ wholesale rates are just and reasonable.”24 As the Court made clear, 
though, the plain language in the Federal Power Act’s grant of authority is broad and “could 
extend FERC’s power to some surprising places,” as “markets in just about everything—the 
whole economy, as it were” can influence demand, which could not have been what Congress 
intended.25 So in making its finding, the Court adopted a “common-sense construction of the 
FPA's language, limiting FERC's ‘affecting’ jurisdiction to rules or practices that ‘directly affect 
the [wholesale] rate.’”26 While large loads may interconnect to transmission-level assets under 
the Commission’s seven factor test,27 the loads themselves are not direct participants in 
wholesale markets. Rather, they are retail customers whose operations may indirectly influence 
wholesale prices by contributing to demand. This indirect impact is beyond the scope of the 
Commission’s jurisdiction under the Federal Power Act.  
The third jurisdictional theory states that regulating large load interconnections would not 
impinge on the states’ authority over retail sales of electricity.28 While this statement aligns with 
the Federal Power Act’s division of jurisdiction between federal and state regulators,29 it does 
not itself establish a basis for federal authority. The Commission must clearly articulate how 
exercising jurisdiction over large load interconnections is consistent with, but not derivative of, 
its authority over wholesale transactions and transmission in interstate commerce. Any legally 
durable justification must respect the limits of federal authority and avoid infringing on state 
control over retail sales and generation mix within their borders. 
 
24 FERC v. Elec. Power Supply Ass'n, 577 U.S. 260, 277, 136 S. Ct. 760, 774, 193 L. Ed. 2d 661 (2016), as revised 
(Jan. 28, 2016).  
25 Id.  
26 Id. (citing California Independent System Operator Corp. v. FERC, 372 F.3d 395, 403 (2004)). 
27 See Proposed ANOPR at 18. 
28 Proposed ANOPR at P 15. 
29 FERC v. Elec. Power Supply Ass'n, 577 U.S. 260 at 264. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 
 
B. Potential Jurisdictional Solutions 
 
The fourth jurisdictional theory reiterates the Commission’s exclusive jurisdiction over 
the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce. This principle provides a more credible 
path forward, but it must be elaborated upon if the Commission were to use it as a foundation to 
assert jurisdiction over the interconnection over large loads.  
In order for the Commission to assert jurisdiction over the large load interconnection, the 
load must be interconnected to the Commission-jurisdictional transmission system, and not the 
state-jurisdictional distribution system. Any final rule in this proceeding must clearly limit 
jurisdiction to the interconnection of large loads to the Commission-jurisdictional transmission 
system, as defined under the Commission’s seven-factor test.30 This jurisdictional finding should 
extend to any generation that may be co-located with the large load.  
For load co-located with generation, if the Commission seeks to extend its jurisdiction 
over the sale of energy from the co-located generation, the Commission must be mindful of the 
various configurations of the large loads. As stated earlier, large load configurations can vary 
significantly in their design and grid-backup needs. In some cases, a large load may include a 
protection system that prevents it from taking any backup power from the grid. Where such a 
system exists, the transaction involves only distribution-level facilities between the load and its 
associated generation. The only sale of energy in that configuration is a retail sale between the 
load and the generator, placing the transaction outside of the Commission’s jurisdiction. In other 
cases, however, large loads may remain physically connected to the transmission system in a 
manner that allows them to draw power during certain operating conditions. In those instances, 
 
30 Order No. 888, FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,036, 21,620 (1996), order on reh’g, Order No. 888-A, FERC Stats. & 
Regs. ¶ 31,048, order on reh’g, Order No. 888-B, 81 FERC ¶ 61,248 (1997), order on reh’g, Order No. 888-C, 82 
FERC ¶ 61,046 (1998).  

--- PAGE 9 ---
9 
 
the use of the transmission system constitutes interstate transmission service and properly falls 
within the Commission’s jurisdiction.  
Any rule asserting jurisdiction over large load interconnections must be carefully tailored 
and supported by all stakeholders. The jurisdictional boundaries of this rulemaking should be 
discussed and debated within the FERC-NARUC Joint Federal-State Task Force. 
 
III. 
GUIDING PRINCIPLES FOR PRO FORMA PROCEDURES AND AGREEMENT 
A. 
General Principles – Flexibility and Transparency  
 
In crafting a final rulemaking governing the interconnection of large loads, the 
Commission must make flexibility a top priority. The Commission should establish a pro forma 
Large Load Interconnection Service Agreement. A pro forma agreement would provide 
consistent procedural guidance. However, the pro forma must be flexible enough to 
accommodate different types of large loads and co-location agreements. These arrangements 
may include loads receiving firm transmission service as well as loads that agree to be curtailable 
under certain system conditions. The Commission’s approach must recognize that each 
configuration has distinct operational needs and system impacts. The November 2024 Technical 
Conference demonstrated that large loads vary considerably in both design and interconnection 
characteristics.31 In the Show Cause Order on the rules surrounding co-location in PJM 
Interconnection, L.L.C., the Commission recognized that different arrangements “are likely to 
use or benefit from the transmission system in different ways depending on how they are 
configured and, moreover, that those different configurations will themselves likely have 
 
31 Transcript, Technical Conference Regarding Large Loads Co-Located at Generating Facilities at 61, Docket No. 
AD-24-11 (Nov. 1, 2024). (statement of Aubrey Johnson, Vice President, System & Resource Planning, 
Midcontinent Independent System Operator). 

--- PAGE 10 ---
10 
 
different impacts on the transmission system.”32 These statements demonstrate the need for a 
framework that is adaptable to multiple configurations and allows transmission providers and 
interconnection customers the ability to design site-specific configurations while maintaining 
consistency with Commission policy. 
Regulatory flexibility should give rise to transparency for, and from, large loads. Large 
load developers need access to accurate information about available grid capacity in order to 
make informed siting and investment decisions.33 The heatmap reforms in Order No. 2023 
provide for a degree of transparency, requiring transmission providers to post a heatmap of 
available transmission capacity.34 SEIA urges the Commission and stakeholders to continue 
developing solutions that would improve upon these heatmaps. 
Large loads must also provide greater transparency to transmission providers and other 
stakeholders so that transmission providers could improve their load forecasts. In addition to 
establishing standard procedures for the interconnection of large loads, the Commission should 
also establish standardized reporting requirements from Commission-jurisdictional utilities to the 
transmission providers. Transmission providers currently rely on load forecasts produced by 
utilities, but each utility employs its own methods and assumptions when developing those 
forecasts.35 Establishing transparent forecasting assumptions and requiring standardized 
reporting by load-serving entities would improve the accuracy of the load forecasts that feed into 
transmission planning and market operations.36 Greater transparency will help ensure that new 
large loads are studied and interconnected efficiently while maintaining system reliability and 
 
32 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 190 FERC ¶ 61,115, P 76 (2025) (PJM Show Cause Order). 
33 Comments of Data Center Coalition under EL25-49, et al. (April 23, 2025). 
34 Order No. 2023 at P 135. 
35 Pre-Filed Statement of Chairman Doug Scott, Illinois Commerce Commission, Docket No. AD25-7-000, (May 
28, 2025) available at https://www.ferc.gov/media/chairman-doug-scott-illinois-commerce-commission. 
36 Response of Advanced Energy United to PJM Interconnection, L.L.C.’s Answer to the Show Cause Order under 
EL25-49, et al.; Comments of Data Center Coalition under EL25-49, et al. (April 23, 2025). 

--- PAGE 11 ---
11 
 
protecting existing customers. 
 
B. 
Principles for Reform in the Proposed ANOPR  
1. 
Jurisdiction should be limited to interconnections directly to transmission 
facilities. 
The Proposed ANOPR states that, in issuing a rulemaking on the interconnection of large 
loads, the Commission’s jurisdiction “should be limited to interconnections directly to 
transmission facilities.”37 SEIA supports this principle. As discussed above, a final rulemaking 
must be legally durable and grounded in the Commission’s statutory authority. Limiting 
jurisdiction to interconnections that occur directly at the transmission level aligns with the 
Federal Power Act and avoids unnecessary encroachment into areas under state authority. This 
approach will help ensure that the final rule withstands judicial scrutiny and provides a clear, 
administrable framework for transmission providers and interconnection customers.  
 
2. 
The Commission should make an independent determination as to the size 
of load this rulemaking should apply. 
The Proposed ANOPR recommends that the rulemaking should only apply to new loads 
greater than 20 megawatts (MW) and, for co-located facilities,38 where the load is greater than 20 
MW. As an initial matter, the Commission must make clear that grid-charging energy storage 
 
37 Proposed ANOPR at P 18. 
38 The Proposed ANOPR uses the term “Hybrid Facilities” to refer to loads that share a point of interconnection with 
new or existing generation facilities. Proposed ANOPR at P 12. “Hybrid facilities” before FERC refer to two or 
more resources that share a point of interconnection. See Order No. 2023, P 1509, FN 2856. Throughout 
proceedings before the Commission that discuss situations where load and generation share a point of 
interconnection, the Commission and commentors have used the term “Co-located facilities.” PJM Show Cause 
Order, P 3, FN 4. Consistent with the terminology used before the Commission, these comments will use the phrase 
“co-located facilities.” 

--- PAGE 12 ---
12 
 
resources should not be considered load under any potential rulemaking.39 Energy storage 
resources occupy a unique space on the grid, as they both inject energy onto the grid and 
sometimes charge from the grid.40 However, energy storage resources are subject to the 
generator interconnection procedures set forward by each transmission provider. These resources 
should not be captured by a rule intended to address the interconnection of new demand-side 
infrastructure. 
SEIA supports the Commission limiting the application of the rulemaking to net loads 
over a certain size. While using a 20 MW threshold would make the rule consistent with the pro 
forma Large Generator Interconnection Procedures and Agreement,41 that threshold may not 
accurately reflect what constitutes a “large” load. In November 2024, a subgroup of the NERC 
Large Load Task Force conducted an informal survey to gather feedback from participants on 
what load size should qualify as “large” under a potential NERC regulatory construct. Most of 
the survey respondents defined “large” as greater than 50 MW.42 In order to set a legally 
defensible size for which loads are considered “large,” the Commission should request data on 
the average size of new large loads, as well as the demand profiles and curtailment abilities, of 
those loads. 
In addition to establishing a size threshold, the Commission should also define a voltage 
threshold for determining whether a load is subject to the rule. Voltage levels dictate the extent 
 
39 Southwest Power Pool, Inc., Revisions to Add the High Impact Large Load Processes and Generation 
Assessment, at 12, Docket No. ER26-247 (Oct. 24, 2025) (“An Electric Storage Resource is not considered a 
HILL.”). 
40 Electric Storage Participation in Markets Operated by Regional Transmission Organizations and Independent 
System Operators, Order No. 841, 162 FERC ¶ 61,127 (2018), order on reh'g, Order No. 841-A, 167 FERC ¶ 
61,154 (2019). 
41 Order No. 2003 at P 52. 
42 North American Electric Reliability Corporation, Characteristics and Risks of Emerging Large Loads, at 11 (July 
2025), 
https://www.nerc.com/comm/RSTCReviewItems/3_Doc_White%20Paper%20Characteristics%20and%20Risks%20
of%20Emerging%20Large%20Loads.pdf. 

--- PAGE 13 ---
13 
 
of a load’s impact on the transmission system and can serve as a clear indicator of whether a 
facility is transmission- or distribution-connected.43 Incorporating both size and voltage criteria 
would ensure jurisdictional clarity and focus the rule on those facilities with a material effect on 
the bulk power system. 
 
3. 
Large loads and associated generation should be studied together. 
The Proposed ANOPR states that “to the extent practicable, load and hybrid facilities 
should be studied together with generating facilities.”44 While SEIA supports the Commission 
requiring load and the associated generation to be studied together, we believe this principle 
must be clarified.  
First, the Commission must clarify whether it intends for this rulemaking to create a new 
queue specifically for large-load interconnections or to incorporate such projects into the existing 
interconnection queues.45 SEIA recommends that the Commission allow flexibility in how these 
studies are conducted and prioritized so that they align appropriately with each region’s existing 
queue and study procedures. Mandating a rigid, standalone queue for large loads could duplicate 
processes and increase administrative burdens. 
Second, the language of the principle itself requires clarity. The Proposed ANOPR refers 
to both “generating facilities” and “hybrid facilities,” although the latter category includes 
generating facilities.46 This distinction creates ambiguity about whether the Commission 
envisions that a large load could both co-locate with a generating resource behind a single point 
 
43 Id. (“…the survey also revealed that “large” may be relative to other factors, such as the voltage to which the load 
is interconnected. For example, a consuming site with a 20 MW peak demand would be considered “large” for 
distribution service, whereas 20 MW is a relatively small customer if interconnected at transmission voltage.”). 
44 Proposed ANOPR at P 20. 
45 E.g. PJM New Services Queue including transmission and interconnection. 
46 Proposed ANOPR at P 20. 

--- PAGE 14 ---
14 
 
of interconnection and also contract with another generator elsewhere on the transmission system 
under a “bring-your-own-generation” (BYOG) arrangement. If the intent is to address both co-
located facilities and BYOG facilities, the Commission must provide for additional requirements 
to maintain open access principles and not negatively impact generation projects that are already 
in the queue. This includes requiring any BYOG arrangements to be electrically close, if not 
behind the same POI, then at least in the same zone. The Commission should also make explicit 
that BYOG arrangements may include Distributed Energy Resource Aggregations (sometimes 
referred to as “Virtual Power Plants” (VPPs)).  
Third, any study of the large load and associated generation, whether co-located or not, 
must reflect the actual operational needs of the load. Some arrangements can be completely 
islanded from the grid and bear the risk of going offline.47 Others cannot take such a risk. Some 
large loads are flexible and can respond to utility price signals and demand response programs. 
The associated study procedures need to be flexible enough to account for different transmission 
system needs. Failing to account for these specific needs in the study may result in 
underestimation of the necessary network upgrades associated with the interconnection of that 
new large load. 
 
4. 
The Commission should establish standardized study deposits, readiness 
requirements, and withdrawal penalties for the interconnection of large 
loads.  
The Proposed ANOPR recommends that load and co-located facilities should be subject 
to standardized study deposits, readiness requirements, and withdrawal penalties.48 SEIA 
 
47 See Post-Workshop Comments of the Solar Energy Industries Association, at 4, Docket No. AD24-11 (Dec. 9, 
2024). 
48 Proposed ANOPR at P 21. 

--- PAGE 15 ---
15 
 
generally supports instituting standard study deposits, readiness requirements, and withdrawal 
penalties for the interconnection of large loads, co-located generation and BYOG.  
The Commission has recognized that study deposits better identify viable projects and 
reduce the number of multiple interconnection requests made by the same customer for the 
purpose of evaluating the costs of different project sites.49 SEIA supports study deposits that are 
based on net withdrawals from and, in the case of co-located facilities, injections to the grid. The 
Commission should consider the magnitude of requested withdrawal and injection rights of the 
co-location arrangement as a basis for determining the magnitude of study deposits required. 
However, as SEIA has stated previously with respect to increased project readiness requirements 
for generator interconnections, increased site control requirements must also come with 
increased transparency in how the transmission providers will establish load projections. 
 
5. 
Transmission providers should study co-located facilities based on the 
amount of injection or withdrawal rights requested and require large 
loads and associated generation to install system protection equipment. 
The Proposed ANOPR recommends that transmission providers should study co-located 
facilities based on the amount of injection or withdrawal rights requested.50 As a protection 
measure, the Proposed ANOPR also recommends that the large load and co-located facilities 
install the system protection facilities necessary to prevent unauthorized injections or 
withdrawals.51 SEIA generally supports these recommendations but encourages the Commission 
to clarify two aspects of these principles. 
First, as part of an interconnection request, the large load should have the option to agree 
 
49 Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 178 FERC ¶ 61,015, at P 45 (2022); Pub. Serv. Co. of New Mexico, 136 FERC ¶ 61,231, P 
80 (2011); Interconnection Queuing Pracs., 122 FERC ¶ 61,252, P 16 (2008).  
50 Proposed ANOPR at P 22. 
51 Proposed ANOPR at P 23. 

--- PAGE 16 ---
16 
 
to be curtailed during certain system conditions. Agreeing to limit energy use to the actual output 
of the associated generating facility should limit the amount of network upgrades to 
accommodate the new load and limit the grid impact during peak load periods. In addition to 
agreeing to be curtailable, a large load should have the option to include a VPP in its 
interconnection request, with accreditation and telemetry consistent with market rules or the 
relevant regulatory authority. For any large loads located in states with large load tariffs that 
contain curtailment protocols, the curtailment conditions requested by the developer in the large 
load interconnection request must be consistent with the curtailment provisions in the applicable 
state tariff.  
Second, the Commission should clarify that the associated generator (co-located or 
BYOG) must go through the standard interconnection queue if they seek any injection rights 
beyond what is necessary to serve just the large load.52 This clarification is necessary because 
technological advances may allow some data centers to reduce consumption from, or even export 
energy back to, the grid in the future. The technology is constantly evolving and may result in 
significant power savings for both new and existing data centers.53 Researchers from the 
Nicholas Institute at Duke University recently stated that “A variety of recent developments in 
computational load profiles, operational capabilities, and broader market conditions, however, 
suggest that a new phase of opportunity and necessity is emerging.”54 The training of the neural 
networks used to power large language models and other machine learning algorithms is 
 
52 See e.g. Southwest Power Pool, Inc., Revisions to Add the High Impact Large Load Processes and Generation 
Assessment, at 12, Docket No. ER26-247 (Oct. 24, 2025). 
53 How liquid cooling can address AI's water crisis in data centers, Data Center Dynamics (Nov. 4, 2024), 
https://www.datacenterdynamics.com/en/opinions/how-liquid-cooling-can-address-ais-water-crisis-in-data-centers/. 
(“In addition to reducing water usage, liquid cooling offers a major boost to energy efficiency. … Many existing 
data centers are also working on liquid cooling retrofits for at least parts of their data centers.”). 
54 Duke University’s Nicholas Institute for Energy, Environment & Sustainability, Rethinking Load Growth: 
Assessing the Potential for Integration of Large Flexible Loads at 11, Feb. 2025, 
www.nicholasinstitute.duke.edu/publications (emphasis added).  

--- PAGE 17 ---
17 
 
deferrable, meaning that these processes could shift to periods of lower grid demand.55 These 
processes could also be shifted to other data centers on the grid, to areas where there is less grid 
demand or more energy available.56 Sending those requests for additional rights through the 
existing interconnection process will ensure nondiscriminatory treatment of all generation 
projects and prevent preferential access for co-located facilities. 
 
6. 
Transmission providers should not expedite large loads that agree to be 
curtailed. 
The Proposed ANOPR recommends that transmission providers expedite the study of 
large loads that agree to be curtailable and co-located facilities that agree to be curtailable and 
dispatchable.57 SEIA does not support this principle.  
The Commission should not require load that agrees to be curtailable to be explicitly 
expedited. Whether a large load is curtailable is something that should be reflected in its 
requested study assumptions.58 If a large load agrees to be curtailed during certain system 
conditions, then that should limit the amount of network upgrades to accommodate the new load. 
This, in turn, should limit the length of time it would take for the new load to come online. There 
would be no need to expedite the requests, since the overall interconnection process would be 
faster by design. 
The Commission should also not permit generation that agrees to be dispatchable to be 
expedited. As stated above, to maintain open access principles and not negatively impact 
generation projects that are already in the queue, BYOG arrangements must be electrically close, 
 
55 Id. 
56 Id. 
57 Proposed ANOPR at P 24. 
58 See Section III.B.5 supra. 

--- PAGE 18 ---
18 
 
if not behind the same POI, then at least in the same zone.59 This requirement would then ensure 
that network upgrades are kept to a minimum. To further ensure that open access principles are 
maintained, the Commission should require that a generator must go through the standard 
interconnection queue if they seek any injection rights beyond what is necessary to serve just the 
large load.60 Going through the standing interconnection process would allow the transmission 
provider to identify and build the network upgrades necessary to carry the energy from the new 
generation facility to points beyond its associated large load. 
 Studies and project designs that limit the grid impacts of adding new generation and load 
limit the network upgrades identified in the initial large load interconnection process. Generation 
that connects through that process cannot agree to be dispatchable because the process constrains 
the ability of those resources to be deliverable beyond the associated large load in the first place. 
  
7. 
Network upgrade costs should be allocated to the large loads and 
generation that trigger the need for network upgrades. However, the 
amount of network upgrades should be limited under a well-designed 
large load interconnection process. 
As a general principle, SEIA agrees that if a large load interconnection request triggers a 
network upgrade, then that large load should pay for the upgrade. This would be consistent with 
Commission precedent,61 and applying this cost allocation principle here would ensure that the 
costs of transmission network upgrades are allocated in a fair and nondiscriminatory manner. 
However, the same concerns SEIA has identified regarding the study of load and 
 
59 See Section III.B.3 supra. 
60 See Section III.B.6 supra. 
61 Improvements to Generator Interconnection Procedures and Agreements, Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054 
(2023); Building for the Future Through Electric Regional Transmission Planning & Cost Allocation, Order No. 
1920, 187 FERC ¶ 61,068 (2024), at P 1; Transmission Plan. & Cost Allocation by Transmission Owning & 
Operating Pub. Utilities, Order No. 1000, 136 FERC ¶ 61,051 (2011), at P 4. 

--- PAGE 19 ---
19 
 
generation together also apply to the issue of cost allocation.62 When large loads and associated 
generation are evaluated within a single study framework, transmission providers must clearly 
define how they will determine which customer—whether the large-load interconnection 
customer or a separate generation interconnection customer—has triggered the need for a 
network upgrade. Without clear methodologies, there is a risk that costs will be allocated 
inconsistently or that one class of interconnection customer (load or generation) will be unfairly 
disadvantaged. The Commission should therefore require transmission providers to develop 
transparent, standardized criteria for determining cost responsibility in cases where both large-
load interconnections and generation projects contribute to the same transmission constraints. 
 
8. 
Large load interconnection customers should have the option to build 
network upgrades. 
The Proposed ANOPR recommends that the interconnection customer shall be afforded 
the same (or equivalent) option to build as currently provided to generator interconnection 
customers.63 SEIA supports this proposal.  
Under the pro forma Large Generator Interconnection Agreement, the interconnection 
customer has the option to build the network upgrades necessary to facilitate the interconnection 
request. Originally this option was limited to situations where the transmission provider notified 
the interconnection customer that it could not complete the construction of the facilities in a 
timely manner. But in Order No. 845, the Commission expanded the option to build to allow the 
interconnection customer to exercise the option regardless of whether the transmission provider 
can complete construction of the network upgrades on-time.64 The Commission should grant 
 
62 See Section III.B.3 supra. 
63 Proposed ANOPR at P 26. 
64 Order No. 845 at P 85. 

--- PAGE 20 ---
20 
 
large load developers the same option. 
The rationale the Commission applied in Order No. 845 to expand the option to build for 
generator interconnection customers applies equally to large-load interconnection customers. 
Allowing interconnection customers to build network upgrades, whether that interconnection 
customer is a load developer or a generation developer, allows the customer to build network 
upgrades in an efficient and cost-effective manner.65 The benefits of this option are the same, 
regardless of whether the interconnection customer is developing generation or new load. 
Requiring large load interconnection customers to wait for the transmission provider to build the 
network upgrades may result in higher costs and longer project development timelines.66 To 
mitigate reliability concerns, the Commission should maintain the same protections for 
transmission providers, including the transmission provider's right to approve the engineering 
design, the equipment tests, and the construction of the network upgrades.67 
 
9. 
The Commission should establish a rule that focuses on bringing new 
generation online to serve new large loads. 
The Proposed ANOPR invited comments on the proposed requirement that an existing 
generating facility that seeks to enter a partial suspension to serve a new load at the same 
location must go through a system support resource (SSR) or reliability must run (RMR) type 
study.68 SEIA takes no position on whether the removal of existing generation should be studied 
as an RMR or SSR. Removing an existing resource from the grid would have the same net 
impact as adding new load without generation to the grid. While the Commission should remain 
 
65 Order No. 845 at P 85. 
66 Order No. 845 at P 86. 
67 Order No. 845 at P 91. 
68 Proposed ANOPR at P 27. 

--- PAGE 21 ---
21 
 
vigilant about the grid impacts of co-locating new load with existing generation, SEIA urges the 
Commission to establish incentives and efficient processes to encourage large loads to bring their 
own, new generation.  
 
10. 
Transmission and ancillary service costs must reflect the benefits the large 
load and co-located generation receive from the grid.  
The Proposed ANOPR states that “utilities serving large loads, including those at hybrid 
facilities, should be responsible for ancillary services based on peak demand, without 
consideration of any co-located generation.”69 SEIA agrees that the transmission and ancillary 
service costs must reflect the benefits the large load and co-located generation receive from the 
grid.70 However, the type of benefits received and the corresponding cost responsibility will 
depend on the specific arrangement.71  
As explained earlier, some arrangements can be completely islanded from the grid and 
bear the risk of going offline.72 Others cannot take such a risk. Given this diversity, applying a 
uniform ancillary service requirement based solely on peak demand would fail to capture the 
actual benefits provided by the transmission system to different large loads and co-location 
arrangements. The Commission should instead require transmission providers to develop 
methodologies that allocate ancillary service and transmission costs in proportion to the level of 
service and reliability actually used by each customer. 
 
69 Proposed ANOPR at P 29. 
70 See Show Cause Order at P 77 (questioning whether Network Integration Transmission Service is the appropriate 
transmission service for all co-location arrangements or that such service would be consistent with cost causation 
principle.). 
71 Clean Energy Buyers Association Pre-filed comments at 5, Docket No. AD24-11; Talen Energy Pre-Filed 
Comments at 1-3, Docket No. AD24-11 (“Talen has been . . . safely operating co-located loads for over 18 
months.”).   
72 See Post-Workshop Comments of the Solar Energy Industries Association, at 4, Docket No. AD24-11 (Dec. 9, 
2024). 

--- PAGE 22 ---
22 
 
 
IV. 
CONCLUSION  
The United States is entering a new era of electric demand growth driven by AI, data 
centers, and other large-load developments. The Commission has a critical opportunity to 
establish clear and legally durable rules that support the reliable interconnection of these new 
loads. As these comments explain, the interconnection of large loads presents novel challenges 
that require flexible procedures, accurate forecasting, and transparent cost allocation. 
SEIA supports the Commission’s leadership in this area and encourages it to issue a Final 
Rule that prioritizes flexibility and coordination between load and generation interconnections. 
Such a rule should provide the regulatory certainty needed to enable the timely development of 
both the generation and transmission infrastructure required to serve this growing demand. By 
adopting a standardized yet adaptable framework, the Commission can position the United States 
to meet the power demands of emerging technologies while strengthening grid reliability and 
advancing our national energy objectives. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/ Melissa Alfano 
Melissa Alfano   
Senior Director of Energy Markets and 
Counsel    
Greg Giunta  
Manager of Regulatory Affairs and Counsel 
Solar Energy Industries Association   
1425 K St NW Ste. 1000   
Washington, DC 20005   
(202) 566-2873   
malfano@seia.org 
ggiunta@seia.org  
 
