--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
1 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  
) 
) 
) 
 
Docket No. RM26-4 
COMMENTS OF CTC GLOBAL CORPORATION 
In response to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (“Commission” or “FERC”) 
Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking  (“ANOPR”) in the above-captioned docket,1 CTC 
Global, Inc. (“CTC”)2 respectfully submits comments highlighting the role of advanced 
conductors in the interconnection of large loads.  
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
FERC’s ANOPR correctly identifies the challenges posed by the rapid growth of large loads 
and the urgency of ensuring timely and orderly interconnection. Reconductoring with advanced 
conductors is a proven, fast, and cost-effective way to create transmission headroom on existing 
corridors. Carbon composite core advanced conductors can double the capacity on existing 
structures because they do not have the increase in weight and sag necessary when capacity is 
increased with early and mid-1900s steel core conductors like ACSR and ACSS.  Because of this 
strength and weight advantage, advanced conductors allow for something traditional conductors 
cannot do: significantly increase capacity through reconductoring. This speed-to-power approach 
is key when discussing steps that can and must be taken in order to add new large loads to the 
power system.   
In cases where rebuilds and greenfield transmission is needed, carbon composit core 
advanced conductors —such as the ACCC Conductor— provide both a cost savings due to 
reduced tower height or fewer towers, elements that also reduce the risk of siting delays. For 
many large-load and hybrid interconnections, these attributes materially reduce the scope and 
cost of network upgrades, shorten implementation timelines, and therefore directly advance the 
ANOPR’s objectives.  
Should FERC decide to invoke authority over the interconnection of large loads greater than 
20 megawatts (MW), we urge the Commission to require transmission providers to explicitly 
evaluate reconductoring with commercially available advanced conductors as a standard 
 
1ANOPR, Ensuring the Timely and Orderly Interconnection of Large Loads, FERC Docket No. RM26-4 (Oct 27, 
2025). 
2 CTC Global is the world’s leading manufacturer of carbon core advanced conductors, with over 124,000 miles of 
its ACCC Conductor in service worldwide. CTC is a US-based company, headquartered in Irvine, California where 
it manufactures carbon core for ACCC Conductors using US-sourced components. CTC also produces ACCC 
around the world from four other manufacturing facilities. 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
 
2 
 
alternative in interconnection and planning studies before ordering more extensive network 
upgrades. 
FERC’s Order No. 1920 has already directed transmission providers to consider alternative 
transmission technologies, including advanced conductors, when evaluating potential long-term 
regional transmission facilities, and to explain how they will consider such technologies in both 
long-term and existing regional planning. Separately, Order No. 2023’s interconnection reforms 
require transmission providers to evaluate alternative transmission technologies, such as 
advanced conductors, when conducting a cluster study. 
II. ADVANCED CONDUCTORS SHOULD BE TREATED AS A STANDARD 
INTERCONNECTION OPTION 
Advanced conductors should be established as a standard interconnection option for large 
loads because they directly advance the ANOPR’s stated goals of “minimizing the need for 
costly network upgrades”3 and “ensur[ing] the timely and orderly addition of large loads to the 
transmission system.”4 Reconductoring existing lines with advanced conductors can often double 
capacity in 6–24 months by reusing towers and rights-of-way, and avoiding many siting 
reviews.5 These outcomes that lower the network upgrades an interconnection study would 
otherwise assign to a large-load customer.  
     Further, reconductoring with advanced conductors is the only way to materially increase 
transmission capacity in a matter of months instead of years. This is critical to connecting 
existing generation to demand, as well as unleashing the 2.6 Terawatts of generation capacity 
currently sitting in interconnection queues.6 For more information about how advanced 
conductors can rapidly and affordably increase transmission capacity, see the attached case 
studies. While 125,000 miles of ACCC have been deployed globally over the past two decades, 
less than 10% of that has been in the United States. Yet, researchers at the University of 
California, Berkeley in an independent, peer-reviewed study, found that found that 98% of 
power lines in the United States were good candidates for reconductoring with carbon 
composite core advanced conductors.7   
 
3 ANOPR P. 20. 
4 Id P. 24. 
5 PNAS, Accelerating Transmission Capacity Expansion by Using Advanced Conductors in Existing Right-of-
Way (September 2024), https://www.pnas.org/doi/10.1073/pnas.2411207121. 
6 Will Gorman et al., Grid Connection Barriers To New-Build Power Plants In the United States, Energy Markets & 
Policy, Berkeley Lab (Jan. 13, 2025), https://emp.lbl.gov/news/grid-connection-barriers-new-build-power-plants-
united-states. 
7 See fn. 5. That study found in part: It currently takes 10 to 15 years to build a new power line and the US is 
building transmission lines at a lower rate than it was in the past decade. Without sufficient capacity, energy projects 
often sit in limbo for years as transmission operators study what upgrades—if any—are needed to accommodate the 
increased loads. The authors modeled various scenarios to determine if replacing existing transmission conductors 
with those made with advanced composite-core materials—a process known as reconductoring—could provide a 
pathway to faster grid expansion. Based on the authors' projections, it is cheaper—and quicker—for utility 
companies to replace the 53,000 existing transmission lines with advanced composite-core materials than it is to 
build entirely new transmission lines. They assert that doing so would reduce wholesale electricity costs by 3% to 
4% on average—translating to $85 billion in system cost savings by 2035 and $180 billion by 2050. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
 
3 
 
Lastly, reconductoring with advanced conductors costs far less than building new lines—
savings that translate into lower electricity bills for American families and reduced energy costs 
for businesses. For example, Southern California Edison reconductored 137 miles of its 230 kV 
Big Creek transmission corridor with ACCC Conductor, avoiding a costly rebuild while 
eliminating sag violations and adding more than 60% additional line capacity. The project cut 
costs from $135 million to $48 million, reduced completion time from 48 to 18 months, 
improved safety, lowered line losses by 30%, and delivered significant environmental and 
customer savings.8  
All of these performance and delivery characteristics squarely support the ANOPR’s 
priorities of reduced network upgrade burdens and timely interconnection.  
III. CONCLUSION 
The Commission’s objectives in this ANOPR—minimizing costly network upgrades and 
ensuring timely, orderly interconnection of large loads—are directly advanced by reconductoring 
with advanced conductors. CTC respectfully requests that the Commission require transmission 
providers to include reconductoring with commercially available advanced conductors as a 
standard alternative in interconnection and study processes for large loads, and to prioritize the 
speed and cost savings afforded by reconductoring existing structures where possible. CTC 
Global stands ready to provide technical data, case studies, and implementation details to assist 
the Commission and transmission providers. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 /s/ Theodore J. Paradise  
Theodore J. Paradise  
Chief Policy and Grid Strategy Officer 
 
/s/ Paige E. Rodrigues 
Paige E. Rodrigues 
Senior Manager, Policy & Grid Strategy 
prodrigues@ctcglobal.com 
 
 
 
8 See attached case studies. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
Converted rebuild to reconductor 
project
137 mi ACCC® installed
65% savings in up-front project 
cost
Reconductor to 2X capacity
27 mi ACCC® installed
$10M savings in up-front project 
cost
Reconductor linking new 
renewable generation
122 mi ACCC® installed
2X line capacity for critical energy 
backbone
“We have used ACCC® to effectively mitigate sag 
infractions, increase efficiency, capacity, and reliability of 
many of our transmission lines. SCE has decreased fire risk 
and built a more resilient grid and are continuing to 
deploy ACCC ® at very rapid and cost-effective pace.”
Mustafa Ali, Chief Engineer
“By utilizing new technology, we were able to minimize the 
impact on the local community and keep the power 
flowing. The increase in capacity will go a long way to 
accommodate growth in renewable electricity in the area 
and support the transition to net zero.”
Rob McDonald, Managing Dir of Transmission
“We have tested InfoCore many times over the last two 
years, and we are seeing real-world results that indicate 
this solution is quick and reliable. Now we are looking 
down the line at what is to come and are very excited by 
the planned developments we are seeing at CTC Global.”
Elia Group, Expert Primary Systems
Reconductor project without 
de-energizing line
1,440 mi ACCC® installed
$43M savings in up-front 
project cost
Reconductor project
94 mi ACCC® installed
2x line capacity to accommodate 
data centers
Other Recent Projects
Reconductor project
91 mi ACCC® installed
“The savings realized by completing the project while the 
line remained energized, have saved consumers tens of 
millions of dollars. We developed a lot of ACCC® testing 
with Kinetrics and I tell people that ACCC® is probably the 
most tested conductor that I’ve ever been involved with.”
James Berger, (former) Director of Transmission
“We have been using ACCC® in Northern Nevada as we’ve 
gotten data centers onto our system as new line builds so 
that we can get higher capacity out of our lines. Our 
internal crews prefer working with ACCC® to a bundled 
configuration and so we’ve standardized ACCC® and love 
using it.”
Devon Kendall, (former) Manager of Civil & Transmission 
Engineering
Green Field project
47 mi ACCC® installed
Reconductor project
          34 mi ACCC® installed
ACCC® Conductor Projects Examples

--- PAGE 5 ---
More Capacity - Less Money and Less Time
AEP utilized 1,440 conductor miles of 
ACCC Conductor to enhance the 
capacity of a 345kV double circuit 
line spanning 120 miles. The upgrade 
to support load growth boosted the 
line’s capacity from 1,751 amps to 
3,099 amps—a capacity increase of 
approximately 80%.
American Electric Power
Southern California Edison
SCE utilized 411 conductor miles of 
ACCC Conductor to reconstruct the 
230kV single circuit line spanning 137 
miles of the Big Creek transmission 
corridor. The upgrade to address 
conductor sag boosted the line’s 
capacity from 936 amps to 1520 
amps— a capacity increase of 
approximately 60%.

--- PAGE 6 ---
AEP Saved $43M & Increased Line Capacity
Reduced line losses
Reduced line loss by 30% enabling energy conservation by 
freeing up 34 MW of generation capacity
Upgrade completed with uninterrupted service
Increased line capacity faster and at lower cost
A temporary single-phase line designed to the replace 240 mi 
while energized (using ACSR would require de-energizing)
Increased the line’s capacity by ~80% (1751 amps to 3099 
amps) while saving $43M and 8 months on the project
1
Utility:
American Electric Power
Line configuration:
345kV 120-mile double circuit line
ACCC® install base:
1,440 conductor miles
Project objective: 
Needed to increase capacity to 
accommodate load growth. N-1 line 
could not take the outage and a rebuild 
require high capex with 
3-4 year timeline
Project details with traditional vs ACCC® Conductor
ACSR
ACCC® 
Rebuild/retrofit 
required:
Yes
No
De-energizing required:
Yes
No
Conductor type:
ACSR Drake
ACCC® Drake
Project cost:
$418M
$375M
Time to completion:
66 months
33 months
These benefits, and the savings realized by completing the 
project while the line remained energized, have saved 
consumers tens of millions of dollars.
J a m e s  B e r g e r ,  ( f o r m e r )  D i r e c t o r  o f  T r a n s m i s s i o n
2
3
ACCC® Solution
Winner of 2016 Edison Award

--- PAGE 7 ---
Reduced line losses
Reduced line loss by 30% enabling conservation of generation 
capacity and saving $85M in customer costs
Sag violation mitigation
Increased line capacity
Realized 40% improvement in line sag, mitigating all violations 
and increasing overall line safety
Increased the line’s rating from 936 amps to 1520 amps, adding 
60%+ more capacity
1
Reconductoring with ACCC® vs rebuilding saved years of time in 
permitting and construction, provided significant environmental 
advantages, and saved tens of millions of dollars in project costs.
S C E
2
3
ACCC® Solution
Utility:
Southern California Edison
Line configuration:
230 kv 137-mile single circuit line
ACCC® conductor 
installed:
411 conductor miles
Project objective: 
SCE needed to rebuild 137 miles of the 
Big Creek transmission corridor to 
mitigate sag violations
Project details with traditional vs ACCC® conductor
ACSR
ACCC® 
Rebuild/retrofit 
required:
Yes
No
Conductor type:
ACSR Dove
ACCC® Dove
Project cost:
$135M
$48M
Time to completion:
48 months
18 months
SCE Saved $87M & Increased Line Capacity

--- PAGE 8 ---
Drop-In Conductor for Unexpected Load Growth
$30M
Cost savings from 
switching to ACCC® 
from ACSR 
3 Years
Time savings from 
avoided 
redesigning, land 
renegotiations and 
re-permitting  
65%
Extra line capacity 
added future 
proofing the grid 
~$17M
Line loss savings 
lowering total cost 
of ownership*
2019: Project design
for new line completed
2023: Pre-construction begins post surveys, 
project planning, land acquisition and permitting
During this time, generation growth forecasts 
grew faster than originally planned
As a result, original line capacity would be 
insufficient to meet the demand
Complete project with ACSR = costly redesign and 
delaying the project by several years 
Utilities replaced ACSR with ACCC® Conductors of 
same weight and diameter and increased line 
capacity by 65% 
1,100+ mi of ACCC® to be installed with same line 
design and right-of-way meeting construction 
schedule for planned 2026 in-service date 
Need to add more capacity than in 
initial project design completed 
Replace ACSR with ACCC®: avoid 
redesign and re-permitting; increase 
capacity at lower cost
Note: * 30-year savings  using the Aluminum Association Method w/ 55% load factor 
Situation
Problem solving with ACCC®
Results

--- PAGE 9 ---
Drop-In Conductor for Unexpected Load Growth
$30M
Cost savings from 
switching to ACCC® 
from ACSR 
3 Years
Time savings from 
avoided 
redesigning, land 
renegotiations and 
re-permitting  
65%
Extra line capacity 
added future 
proofing the grid 
~$17M
Line loss savings 
lowering total cost 
of ownership*
Situation
Problem solving with ACCC®
Results
New transmission line to address 
renewable energy growth with 
conceptual plans completed in 
early 2019 
Pre-construction began in Sept 2023 post surveys, project 
planning, land acquisition and permitting
During this time, growth in new renewable projects far 
outpaced original forecasts and AESO analysts determined that 
the original planned capacity of the line would be insufficient 
to meet demand
Increasing line capacity using the utilities’ traditional ACSR 
conductor would have required a costly redesign, and set the 
project back several years due to renegotiating land use 
agreements and re-filing permits 
Rather than redesign and face further delays and higher project 
costs, the AESO utilities (ATCO and AltaLink) worked with CTC 
Global to develop a novel solution
The utilities replaced the traditional ACSR conductor in the 
original project design with ACCC® and increased line capacity 
by 65% 
ACCC® was a “drop-in” replacement with same diameter and 
weight as the original ACSR conductor. The project will be 
installing 1,100+ miles of ACCC® with same line design and 
right-of-way meeting construction schedule for planned 2026 
in-service date 
Note: * 30-year savings  using the Aluminum Association Method w/ 55% load factor 
