--- PAGE 1 ---
The Case for Demand Reduction 
 
Last May I retired from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission after 23 years. Part of my 
job was to take care of public inquiries. In my last two years of employment I talked to numerous 
citizens about their growing despair over high electric bills. I particularly remember a couple of 
calls where women, in tears, told me that they would have to choose between paying their 
exploding electric bill or buying food. 
 
I tried to explain to them the larger market forces that were driving prices up. But nobody was 
buying it. To the individual householder, nothing had changed. Their electric usage was the 
same as last year. They were all convinced that rising prices were the result of greedy and 
corrupt utility executives. The simple truth is that people love the free market as long as prices 
are going down. 
 
Some years ago I listened to a speech given by Dr. Steven Chu, a Nobel laureate who served 
as Secretary of Energy. Dr. Chu commented that the U.S. could forego building multiple 
generating plants if people just painted their roofs white. 
 
When I retired I had the opportunity to test Dr. Chu’s assumption. The shingle roof of my house 
was reaching the end of its 20-year life. Instead of putting on a new roof, I opted to paint it with 
special products that are designed to extend the life of the shingles. But instead of a clear 
coating, which comprise the majority of commercial products, I chose a UV-protective product, 
turning my medium-gray shingles to an off white. Basically, a light roof just absorbs less energy 
than a dark roof. Everyone knows that’s how it works. 
 
But I also became aware of a new concept called a “cool roof.”  If a paint is impregnated with 
microscopic spheres it will literally reflect UV rays back into space. This painted surface will 
actually be cooler than the ambient air temperature surrounding it. After looking into various 
options I discovered a company that produces microscopic glass beads that have the 
consistency of fine sand. This company is called Guerra Paint and Pigment in New Jersey. (I’m 
sure there are other suppliers as well).  
 
The glass beads can be added to any paint to render it light reflective. The primary consumer of 
this product is the Department of Motor Vehicles, who add it to the paint they use to mark stripes 
on streets and freeways. Even in areas where there are no street lights, if this paint is used the 
driver can easily see where the road is from the light that is reflected off the road from their head 
lights. A pound of this product cost just $42. 
 
I painted the roof of my three-bedroom home two coats of my “mist gray” paint, and with a 
couple of gallons of leftover paint I added the glass beads and used that as an extra coat on the 
south side of my roof. 
 
The results were immediate and dramatic. My house suddenly seemed calmer. I realized that 
was because the furnace fan wasn’t constantly humming. My upstairs bedrooms were now 

--- PAGE 2 ---
much cooler. The attic fan, which turns on when that space reaches 95 degrees and would keep 
me awake all night, no longer turned on. 
 
I don’t have kilowatt statistics, but anecdotally I can confirm Dr. Chu’s assumptions. 
 
But how does this translate to the larger issue at hand? Clearly, converting individual homes 
would take time and considerable effort. The average roof lasts 20 years, so conversion would 
be gradual. Any program focused on houses would also have to contend with “aesthetic” issues 
about individual tastes about white roofs. Some homes have slate roofs or ceramic tiles that are 
tied to historic preservation. There are all kinds of issues. 
 
The low-hanging fruit for demand reduction lies with flat-roofed commercial buildings, most of 
which have a roofing system of black rubber. These systems do a fine job preventing moisture 
infiltration to the building, but it also means that the structure itself is a heat sink. Then the 
building occupants compensate for the heat that the sun creates by cranking up the air 
conditioning.  
 
Fortunately, there is a low-cost solution to this problem.  There’s no need to build new roofs on 
these buildings. I found several commercially-available products that can convert these black 
rubber roofs to a UV reflective system through the application of an elasticised paint. The 
process is straightforward. Clean off the roof–a power wash will do the trick. Then paint one 
layer of base paint, followed by a top coat of bright white. The final coat needs 24 hours to dry. 
You could even add glass beads to aim for a “cool” roof effect.  
 
Buying the paint supplies for my roof cost about $1,500 plus $42 for glass beads. When I priced 
out the elasticised paint I figured that the cost of elasticised paint for a commercial building 
would probably be between $3,000 - $5,000. These costs would fall when operated in a 
program that exploits economies of scale in purchasing supplies. 
 
The cost of demand reduction would be pennies on the dollar compared to the cost of new 
generation. And there are literally millions of flat-topped buildings in the U.S., office buildings, 
municipal buildings housing federal, state and local bureaucracies, libraries, schools. And most 
importantly, high-rise apartment houses.  
 
In Arlington, Virginia where I live, over half of our population live in multi-family units, a huge 
number of which are flat-topped high-rises. The owners and managers of those buildings are 
less likely to pursue a UV-reflective roof because the electric usage is individually-metered in 
the separate apartments. But this is where most of the working-class and non-home owners 
live, the very people who are in desperate need of respite from high electric costs. 
 
In the larger market, significant demand reduction will create downward pressure on electric 
wholesale prices, which will benefit everyone, including the large users like the data centers. In 
the end, everyone wins. 
 

--- PAGE 3 ---
We should not discount the importance of demand reduction. For almost 20 years the U.S. had 
flat demand, which kept electricity prices affordable across most of the country. Not enough 
attention or recognition was afforded to the U.S. Department of Energy’s “Energy Star” program, 
which worked to improve the efficiency of electric appliances.  
 
During this time American consumers were quietly swapping out their old, inefficient 
refrigerators, stoves, clothes dryers, washing machines, dish washers and other items with 
models that saved energy. This quiet evolution meant that, even though the population grew, 
energy consumption remained steady. 
 
We’re in a new era of dramatic increases in demand. We won’t be able to build our way out of 
this mess. Small nuclear units are still years away, gas generating equipment is not immediately 
available for new construction. Demand reduction must be considered at least as a partial 
solution. 
 
My proposal is simple. The data centers and other large users should be required, as a 
condition of interconnection, to secure a commensurate amount of demand reduction to the 
amount of load they plan to put onto the grid. This would be consistent with the ratemaking 
principle of “cost causation.”   
 
I would suggest that they start this effort in the very communities that have been hardest hit by 
their presence–in the communities that already have clusters of data centers. One way to 
achieve this would be to offer local governments, commercial property owners, and individual 
households, the free service of converting their roofs to “cool roof” technology, or at least to 
UV-reflective use. I believe this program would be a welcome relief. 
 
To those who argue that my solution only addresses summertime use, I am confident that our 
industry is sufficiently innovative to find additional opportunities for demand reduction. We just 
need to start thinking about this problem in a different way. 
 
I offer my best wishes to the Commission in their deliberations on this very important topic. 
 
Sarah McKinley 
2811 13th Road South 
Arlington, VA 22204 
703-402-6363 
sarah.mckinley1952@gmail.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
