--- PAGE 1 ---
 
1
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
) 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Interstate Transmission System 
 
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
) 
 
INITIAL ANOPR COMMENTS OF THE WORKING FOR ADVANCED 
TRANSMISSION TECHNOLOGIES AND ADVANCING MODERN POWERLINES 
COALITIONS 
 
I. 
Introduction 
The Working for Advanced Transmission Technologies (WATT) Coalition and the Advancing 
Modern Powerlines (AMP) Coalition thank the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
(“FERC” or “the Commission”) for the opportunity to provide comments in response to the 
Secretary of Energy’s (“Secretary”) proposed advanced notice of proposed rulemaking 
(“ANOPR”) regarding the interconnection of large loads to the interstate transmission system 
pursuant to the Secretary’s authority under section 403 of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act1 published by the Secretary on October 27, 2025.  
We agree with the Secretary that the United States is facing rapid growth in energy demand from 
large loads, in particular, data centers and advanced manufacturing, and that in order to for the 
United States to prosper, domestic industries and citizens alike must have access to affordable, 
reliable, and secure electricity.2 We commend the Secretary and the Administration for its focus 
on the transmission system and benefits of Advanced Transmission Technologies (“ATTs”).3   
In particular, the WATT and AMP Coalitions are submitting comments to highlight key points for 
consideration by the Commission.  
1. The Commission found in Order No. 2023 that ATTs can provide benefits to generator 
interconnection customers network upgrades in place of or in addition to traditional 
network upgrades. The Commission required the evaluation of ATTs in the 
 
1 42 U.S.C. § 7173. 
2 Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, “Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission 
System,” Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 23, 2025) (“ANOPR”). 
3 In outlining his priorities as Secretary of Energy, Chris Wright stated that the nation’s transmission system is 
“critical to the reliable and secure delivery of electricity.” See U.S. Secretary of Energy, Secretarial Order: 
Unleashing the Golden Era of American Energy Dominance” (Feb. 5, 2025), 
https://www.energy.gov/articles/secretary-wright-acts-unleash-golden-era-american-energy-dominance; The White 
House’s AI Action Plan includes a section on grid optimization, specifically highlighting as a priority “upgrades to 
power lines that can increase the amount of electricity transmitted along existing routes.” See Executive Office of 
the President of the United States, Winning the Race: America’s AI Action Plan, at 15 (July 2025), 
https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Americas-AI-Action-Plan.pdf.  

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
2
interconnection study process because they are cheaper and faster to deploy than 
traditional upgrades, saving money and time. 
2. The benefits the Commission found for generator interconnection apply for large load 
interconnection as well and are key to achieving speed to power: ATTs are the fastest 
way to increase transmission capacity and provide additional benefits to large loads 
and consumers through lower upgrade and system costs, as well as improved reliability.  
3. The WATT and AMP Coalitions recommend the Commission require ATTs, including 
dynamic line ratings, be evaluated alongside traditional upgrades in the interconnection 
of large loads, as was required in Order No. 2023, given the benefits to consumers and 
interconnection customers identified by the Commission.  
The WATT and AMP Coalitions do not provide comment on any of the other specific issues 
raised in the ANOPR, other than to respectfully request that the evaluation of ATT deployment to 
facilitate large load interconnections should be considered as a principle that informs any 
rulemaking procedures proposed by the Commission. 
 
II. 
About the WATT Coalition and AMP Coalition  
Grid Enhancing Technologies (“GETs”) and High Performance Conductors (“HPCs”), together 
known as Advanced Transmission Technologies (“ATTs”),4 represent the fastest, lowest-cost path 
to unlock grid capacity and enable the interconnection of new generation and AI datacenters, and 
other large loads. 
a. About the WATT Coalition   
The WATT Coalition advocates for policy that supports the wide deployment of GETs to 
accelerate lower energy costs and enable economic growth. GETs are hardware and/or software 
that increases the capacity, efficiency, and maintain the reliability of the electric grid. Learn more 
at watt-transmission.org. WATT’s membership includes Dynamic Line Ratings, Advanced Power 
Flow Control and Transmission Topology Optimization vendors, as well as independent power 
producers, investors, and utilities.   
i. About Grid Enhancing Technologies   
GETs are hardware and software that increase the capacity, efficiency and reliability of the 
transmission system. These technologies are installed on existing transmission infrastructure to 
give operators more situational awareness and control over the grid.    
 
4 The WATT and AMP Coalitions use “Advanced Transmission Technologies” to refer collectively to the GETs and 
HPCs included in the section which the Commission describes as “alternative transmission technologies.” For 
clarity, the term “ATT” is used to encompass both “Advanced Transmission Technologies” and “alternative 
transmission technologies.” 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
3
• 
Advanced Power Flow Controller (“APFC”) technologies actively balance the flow on 
transmission lines. The hardware can intelligently raise or lower the impedance, or the 
opposition to current, in real time to push power from overloaded circuits to lines that 
have the capacity to carry it.   
• 
Dynamic Line Rating (“DLR”) monitors ambient conditions, including wind speed, 
which heat or cool transmission lines to calculate the true capacity of transmission lines 
based on their thermal limits. DLR often allows significantly more power flow than a 
static rating over the course of the year but also detects when flows should be reduced to 
continue safe and reliable operation in extreme heat or other conditions.   
• 
Transmission topology optimization (“TTO”) software models the grid's network and 
power flow conditions to identify ways to reroute power flow around congested or 
overloaded transmission elements. These "reconfigurations" are implemented by 
switching on or off existing high-voltage circuit breakers. By more evenly distributing 
flow over the network, topology control increases the transfer capacity of the grid, like 
Google maps redirecting cars in traffic.   
b. About the AMP Coalition   
The AMP Coalition is an ad hoc coalition of HPC technology vendors. AMP’s goal is to further 
the use of HPCs as a tool for modernizing and increasing grid capacity, as well as improving the 
overall resilience, reliability, and energy efficiency of the grid. The coalition includes both 
carbon core conductors and superconductors. Learn more at ampcoalition.org.  
i. About High Performance Conductors   
HPCs are modern conductor technologies which have greater performance characteristics when 
compared to traditional conductors, including increased capacity, higher efficiency, and less 
thermal sag.   
• 
Carbon Core Conductors, also known as Advanced Conductors, are overhead, bare 
conductors that use a trapezoid shaped wire of annealed aluminum to carry electrical 
current and use a carbon core for support. Used commercially for 20 years, the 
conductors are deployed in over 60 countries across five continents.5 Carbon core 
conductors have three key advantages over traditional conductors: 1) stronger and lighter 
weight cores, which allows for more aluminum to be added to the conductor, doubling 
the capacity; 2) 20% or greater efficiency; and 3) half as much thermal sag.6  
 
5  ACORE, Grid Strategies, Unlocking the Grid: A Playbook on High Performance Conductors for State and 
Regional Regulators and Policymakers (Oct. 2024), at 2, https://acore.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/Unlocking-
the-Grid-A-Playbook-on-High-Performance-Conductors-for-State-and-Regional-Regulators-and-
Policymakers.pdf (“HPCs Playbook”). 
6 Id. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
4
• 
Superconductors use a class of metallic compounds that exhibit negligible resistance 
when cooled using liquid nitrogen, enabling very low losses and very high power-flow 
capacities. Developed in the 1980s, countries in Europe and Asia, as well as the U.S., 
have installed superconductors over the past 20 years.7 Superconductors have three key 
advantages over traditional conductors: 1) increase capacity 5-10 times at lower voltages, 
reducing substation build and cost; 2 no thermal sag and lines do not vary with ambient 
weather conditions because there is no exposure to elements, or can be undergrounded in 
small ROWs; and 3) at least 50% more energy efficient.8   
 
III. 
Transmission interconnection is critical to the development of large loads 
The rapid growth in electricity use to train and operate increasingly powerful AI models is 
putting significant pressure on the U.S. power system. A 2024 Department of Energy analysis 
projects that data centers could account for up to 12% of total U.S. electricity consumption by 
2028, up from about 4.4% in 2023.9  
Data center buildout in PJM is expected to host as much as 70% of future U.S. development.10 
The concentration of demand, especially in northern Virginia’s “data center alley,” where a 
substantial share of global internet traffic flows, is creating intense pressure for new greenfield 
transmission to support the interconnection of data centers.11 Building those lines can be 
challenging. New lines take many years to build, are capital intensive, must cross numerous local 
jurisdictions, and can involve disputes over land use and eminent domain. New greenfield 
transmission projects can be contentious – a fundamental reality that can be managed but not 
eliminated. Consequently, these dynamics have led to utilities in some cases quoting wait times 
as long as seven years for new large loads to interconnect.12  
Additionally, behind-the-meter (“BTM”) generation options can be beneficial but do not solve all 
problems for data center operators, who have turned to a wide array of agreements with 
generation developers to accelerate the powering of these facilities. But, for now, most data 
 
7 Id. 
8 ENTSO-E, Technopedia: High Temperature Superconducting (HTS) Cables (Mar. 
2025), https://www.entsoe.eu//technopedia/techsheets/high-temperature-superconducting-cables/ (hereinafter, 
“Technopedia”). 
9 Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, “2024 United States Data Center Energy Usage Report,” December 
2024, https://eta-publications.lbl.gov/sites/default/files/2024-12/lbnl-2024-united-states-data-center-energy-usage-
report.pdf at 5. 
10 Boston Consulting Group, “Breaking Barriers to Data Center Growth,” January 20, 2025, 
https://www.bcg.com/publications/2025/breaking-barriers-data-center-growth. 
11 Prince William Times, “Opposition mounts to ‘spiderweb’ of new transmission lines needed to power data center 
alley,” October 25, 2023, https://www.princewilliamtimes.com/news/opposition-mounts-to-spiderweb-of-new-
transmission-lines-needed-to-power-data-center-alley/article_b7da863c-dfac-516d-9dfe-9adc34b8c8bd.html. 
12 Bloomberg, “Data Centers Face Seven-Year Wait for Dominion Power Hookups,” August 29, 2024, 
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2024-08-29/data-centers-face-seven-year-wait-for-power-hookups-in-
virginia?embedded-checkout=true 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
5
centers still seek a grid interconnection, even if some generation is co-located. Eliminating grid 
interconnection entirely creates risks which many large load interconnection customers are not 
willing to accept. AI data centers seek to operate at high levels of reliability, often at least 99.999 
percent (‘five nines’) uptime.13 That standard allows for less than seven minutes of outage in a 
year. Any off-grid generation solution would require maintenance outages exceeding that limit 
and offer less redundancy compared to the grid. For the vast majority of operators, grid 
interconnection with generator backup is preferable to fully off-grid data centers.  
 
IV. 
ATTs are the fastest option to unlock grid capacity and interconnect new data 
centers and other large loads 
“Speed-to-power" has emerged as the key priority for data center developers, outpacing other 
considerations such as access to land, water, chips, or fiber availability, and the price of 
electricity.14 However, development of new transmission lines requires, on average, six to ten 
years.15 While new greenfield transmission projects will be needed in some cases to support the 
interconnection of large loads, ATTs deployment timelines are more aligned with the 
interconnection needs of new large loads, which may only take 1-2 years to construct. ATTs can 
rapidly increase the grid’s capacity in 18-36 months using existing infrastructure and rights-of-
way (“ROW”) providing fast solutions to unlock new grid capacity while also being a bridge to 
bring new large loads on more quickly while new network transmission upgrades are built. 
Within 1-3 months, DLR and TTO can be deployed. Belgium’s system operator Elia has operated 
with DLR since 2012, finding 10-16% percent or more capacity gains 90% of the time.16 
Deploying TTO for a utility in South America found 7% additional transfer capacity. A 7% 
increase in transfer capacity in the US could mean around 100 gigawatts (“GW”) of additional 
capacity. 
Within 1-3 years, APFC can be deployed and can add hundreds of megawatts (“MW”) of 
additional capacity. In the United Kingdom, APFC unlocked 2 GW of additional capacity across 
 
13 SemiAnalysis, “Datacenter Anatomy Part 1: Electrical Systems,” October 24, 2024, 
https://semianalysis.com/2024/10/14/datacenter-anatomy-part-1-electrical/. 
14 McGeady, Cy et al., “The Electricity Supply Bottleneck on US AI Dominance,” March 2025, https://csis-website-
prod.s3.amazonaws.com/s3fs-public/2025-
03/250303_McGeady_Electricity_Bottleneck.pdf?VersionId=LsCkrctQBekLSYFPxus3XWdmTCnmIr9Z 
15 See MISO, LRTP Tranche 1 Appendix A (2022) and LRTP Tranche 2.1 Appendix A; See also Lisa Kelso, 
Testimony before the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio, “Direct Testimony of Lisa Kelso on Behalf of Ohio 
Power Company,” Case No. 24-508-EL-ATA, filed May 13, 2024, 
https://dis.puc.state.oh.us/ViewImage.aspx?CMID=A1001001A24E13B43501B00952. 
16 Ampacimon, Inc., Elia Large-scale DLR Deployment (Sept. 2020), https://ferc.gov/sites/default/files/2020-
09/Alexander-ELIA.pdf.  

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
6
three substations, and other individual deployments in the United States have found 100-500 
MWs of capacity.17  
HPCs can be deployed on a similar 1-3 year timeframe through reconductoring and can double 
capacity on an existing ROW.18 ENEL in Colombia doubled line capacity when reconductoring 
70 kilometers with HPCs, alleviating congestion to support the growth of and increased energy 
demands from industry.19 SSEN in Scotland reconductored 44 kilometers of circuit miles with 
HPCs, doubling line capacity to meet demand from regional heavy industry, such as an 
aluminum smelter.20 
 
V. 
The Commission recognized the benefits of ATTs to the interconnection process 
in Order No. 2023 
The Commission has recognized that omitting ATTs from the generation interconnection study 
processes can lead to unjust and unreasonable rates. In Order No. 2023 Improvements to the 
Generator Interconnection Procedures and Agreements the Commission found that  
“Because the benefits of the enumerated alternative transmission technologies identified 
above are present across all interconnection processes, regardless of the size of the 
interconnection request, we find that the failure to evaluate the enumerated alternative 
transmission technologies results in both the pro forma LGIP and pro forma SGIP being 
unjust, unreasonable, and unduly discriminatory or preferential.”21 
The Commission also acknowledged the value of ATTs in lowering upgrade costs and shortening 
timelines. Order No. 2023 found that ATTs “can be deployed more quickly to be used as network 
upgrades in place of, and at a lower cost than, traditional network upgrades,” and highlighted the 
numerous benefits commenters stated ATTs can provide including, “resolving thermal overloads 
and avoiding voltage collapse, allowing for better use of the existing transmission system, 
improving reliability, and reducing interconnection request withdrawals, restudies, and overall 
interconnection delays.”22 
 
17 Smart Wires Inc., Case Study Booklet, accessed November 14, 2025, https://watt-transmission.org/wp-
content/uploads/2025/11/Smart-Wires-case-study-booklet.pdf.  
18 AMP Coalition & ACORE, Unlocking the Grid: A Playbook on High Performance Conductors (October 2024), 
https://acore.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/Unlocking-the-Grid-A-Playbook-on-High-Performance-Conductors-
for-State-and-Regional-Regulators-and-Policymakers.pdf. 
19 CTC Global, ENEL Reconductors to Ensure a Reliable Energy Future, accessed November 14, 
2025, https://ctcglobal.com/enel-reconductoring-case-study/.  
20 CTC Global, SSEN Reconductors for Added Capacity in the Scottish Highlands, accessed November 14, 
2025, https://ctcglobal.com/ssen-reconductoring-case-study/.  
21 Improvements to Generator Interconnection Procedures and Agreements, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054 (2023) at P 54 
(“Order No. 2023”). 
22 Id. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
7
FERC now requires ATTs to be evaluated for every generation interconnection customer in every 
cluster study. In Order No. 2023, the Commission required transmission providers:  
“Evaluate the list of alternative transmission technologies enumerated in this final rule 
during the cluster study, including any restudies, of the generator interconnection process 
in all instances (i.e., for all interconnection customers in a cluster), without the need for a 
request from an interconnection customer. We require transmission providers to evaluate 
each alternative transmission technology listed in pro forma LGIP section 7.3 and to 
determine, in the transmission provider’s sole discretion, whether it should be used, 
consistent with good utility practice, applicable reliability standards, and other applicable 
regulatory requirements. Finally, we require transmission providers to include, in the pro 
forma LGIP cluster study report, an explanation of the results of the evaluation of the 
enumerated alternative transmission technologies for feasibility, cost, and time savings as 
an alternative to a traditional network upgrade.”23 
In Order No. 2023 the Commission also identified specific benefits ATTs contribute to the 
generation interconnection process: 
• “Regarding advanced power flow controls, we find that these devices allow power to be 
pushed and pulled to alternate lines with spare capacity leading to maximum utilization 
of transmission capacity and mitigation of overloads. Advanced power flow control 
devices can be scaled back as needed, providing an advantage over new lines or 
reconductors.”24  
• “Transmission switching can be used to route energy around areas with high congestion 
and improve the overall transfer capability of the system, potentially resulting in lower 
network upgrade costs.”25 
• “We note the comments arguing that advanced conductors may be beneficial as network 
upgrades…deploying advanced conductors can significantly increase transmission 
capacity and allow for the interconnection of new generating facilities without the 
construction of new network upgrades…By increasing transmission line ratings, there 
will be more ‘headroom’ on the system to address normal and contingency conditions 
identified in interconnection studies, and likely a reduced need for network upgrades. 
Given these potential benefits to interconnection customers, we require transmission 
providers to evaluate advanced conductors and tower lifting in the interconnection 
process.”26 
The WATT and AMP Coalitions respectfully request that the list of ATTs required to be studied 
in Order No. 2023 should also be required alongside the other principles proposed by the 
 
23 Id. at P 1578. 
24 Id. at P 1594 
25 Id. at P 1583 
26 Id. at P 1597. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
8
Secretary for any process for the interconnection of large loads to the interstate transmission 
system. 
 
VI. 
Inclusion of DLR in the context of large load interconnection 
The WATT Coalition respectfully recommends that DLR should be evaluated in the context of 
any new large load interconnection procedures alongside other ATTs.  
DLRs were initially included on the ATT list in the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“NOPR”) 
for Order No. 2023.27 However, DLR was removed from the list of ATTs required to be 
evaluated in Order No. 2023, ostensibly because it was not among the technologies showing the 
“most potential to be useful,“28 despite a well-developed record showing benefits in the generator 
interconnection process. DLRs have been demonstrated to be effective interconnection-related 
network upgrades, such as unlocking 600 MW of wind generation in the UK,29 reduce the need 
for more expensive and longer-lead time traditional network upgrades and facilitate more rapid 
interconnection. DLRs accurately forecast and confirm the true, real-time capacity of power lines 
by including various inputs such as ambient air temperature or transmission line tension. 
In the interconnection study process, upgrades may be identified based on very small overloads 
on lines with extremely conservative thermal ratings. One generation developer was assessed for 
a $400 million upgrade based on a 1% projected line overload. Depending on the utility’s rating 
methodology, DLR has potential to increase the capacity of that line by more than 1% in all 
conceivable weather scenarios. While DLR will not be appropriate for every load 
interconnection, it will occasionally save many millions of dollars and years of delay and thus 
should be studied. If the interconnection agreement includes load flexibility, DLR will be even 
more valuable in reducing the number of hours requiring load curtailment. 
DLR regularly provides potential as a cost-effective solution in interconnection processes. The 
WATT Coalition in its reply comments to the Order No. 2023 NOPR cited a substantial record 
supporting DLR in Appendix A and in Appendix B provide additional specific examples of the 
use of DLR in the generator interconnection context.30 The WATT Coalition’s request for 
rehearing and clarification of Order No. 2023 provided multiple further examples from around 
 
27 Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, Improvements to Generator Interconnection Procedures and Agreements, 179 
FERC ¶ 61,194, at P 294-295 (2022) (“NOPR”). 
28 Order No. 2023 at P 1579. 
29 National Grid Partners, “Upgrading the grid,” accessed November 21, 2025, 
https://www.ngpartners.com/stories/how-national-grid-partners-is-working-to-achieve-net-zero-emissions-by-20502. 
30 Working for Advanced Transmission Technologies Reply Comments on Improvements to Generator 
Interconnection Procs. & Agreements, 87 FR 39934 (July 5, 2022), 179 FERC ¶ 61,194, at 7-17 (2022) 
https://elibrary.ferc.gov/eLibrary/filelist?accession_number=20221214-5150&optimized=false&sid=48cb2214-
3438-40f2-bc0b-f88dcfabac3b (“WATT Reply Comments”). 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
9
the world where generators around the world have benefited from the inclusion of DLR in 
interconnection upgrades.31  
 
VII. 
Conclusion 
The WATT and AMP Coalitions commend the Secretary for its work on the ANOPR and the 
Commission for providing opportunity to comment. We reiterate the need for the swift 
deployment of ATTs to help facilitate the interconnection of large loads.  
We also emphasize that our comments do not contain recommendations on additional issues 
raised by the Secretary’s proposed ANOPR, beyond our recommendation that any rulemaking 
procedures proposed by the Commission should include the evaluation of ATT deployment to 
facilitate large load interconnections.  
Additionally, the Commission could issue a separate rulemaking on the use of all ATTs to 
address issues such as congestion or grid efficiency and utilization in near term planning and 
operations.  
We welcome continued engagement with the Secretary and Commission to help identify and 
accelerate practical solutions that align with national goals of large load interconnection.  
  
Respectfully submitted,  
 
Julia Selker  
Executive Director, WATT Coalition  
jselker@gridstrategiesllc.com    
 
Zach Zimmerman  
Executive Director, AMP Coalition  
zzimmerman@gridstrategiesllc.com 
 
 
November 21, 2025 
 
 
31 Working for Advanced Transmission Technologies Request for Rehearing and Clarification on Improvements to 
Generator Interconnection Procs. & Agreements, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054 (2023), 
https://elibrary.ferc.gov/eLibrary/filelist?accession_number=20230828-5257&optimized=false&sid=48cb2214-
3438-40f2-bc0b-f88dcfabac3b. 
