--- PAGE 1 ---
Page | 1 
 
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to 
the Interstate Transmission System 
 
)          
)         Docket No. RM26-4-000 
) 
) 
 
INITIAL COMMENTS OF AMERICA’S POWER 
 
America’s Power1 submits these comments in response to the Federal 
Energy Regulatory Commission’s (“Commission”) solicitation of comments on the 
advance notice of proposed rulemaking (“ANOPR”) proposed by the Secretary of 
Energy on October 23, 2025 for consideration and final action by the Commission.2   
As Secretary Wright stated in his letter to the Commission, large loads will 
require unprecedented and extraordinary supplies of electricity.  America’s Power 
appreciates the efforts of the Department of Energy and the Commission to meet the 
challenge of serving all loads economically and on a timely basis.   The existing coal 
fleet, which provides reliable and dispatchable baseload power, is well-positioned 
 
1 America’s Power advocates on behalf of coal-fueled electricity and the nation’s coal-fueled 
electric generating plants. Our membership is comprised of electricity generators and the 
coal fleet supply chain—coal producers, transportation companies, and equipment 
manufacturers. 
2 Letter from Chris Wright, Secretary of Energy, to The Honorable David Rosner, Chairman, et 
al., Secretary of Energy’s Direction that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Initiate 
Rulemaking Procedures and Proposal Regarding the Interconnection of Large Loads Pursuant 
to the Secretary’s Authority Under Section 403 of the Department of Energy Organization Act 
(Oct. 23, 2025)(including proposed ANOPR) posted in Docket No. RM26-4 (Oct. 27, 2025). 

--- PAGE 2 ---
Page | 2 
 
to be an important part of the solution.  America’s Power’s members  are committed 
to helping achieve the goal of the ANOPR “to ensure[] the timely and orderly addition 
of large loads to the transmission system in a safe, reliable, and non-discriminatory 
manner.”3   To that end, America’s Power requests the Commission take the 
following actions in the Final Rule: 
FIRST, the Commission should establish an expedited interconnection path for 
large loads that take advantage of the underutilized capacity of existing generating 
facilities.  Many existing generators—particularly coal-fired generators—generate 
substantially less power than they are capable of generating.  The average capacity 
factor for the coal fleet was 43% last year,4 which means there is considerable 
underutilized generating capacity available to serve large loads.  To illustrate the 
amount of underutilized capacity, the nation’s coal fleet totals some 176,000 
megawatts (MW) of capacity.5  Increasing the average capacity factor for coal to 63%, 
the average capacity factor in January and July of this year, would translate into 
35,000 MW of additional generating capacity, or enough to power 35 (more or less) of 
the largest hyperscale data centers.  New large load customers that enter into 
bilateral contracts with existing generators to generate more power either by 
increasing their capacity factor or adding new generation at an existing site should be 
eligible for fast-track interconnection treatment.   
 
3 ANOPR at P 24. 
4 See EIA Electric Power Monthly, Electric Power Monthly - U.S. Energy Information 
Administration (EIA) (last visited Nov. 19, 2025). 
5 Id. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
Page | 3 
 
An expedited interconnection path also would incentivize bilateral contracting 
between underutilized generating capacity and large loads.  Such contracting would 
make efficient use of existing infrastructure, minimize if not eliminate the factors that 
have prompted premature retirement, and avoid unnecessary and costly 
transmission expansion.  In addition, bilateral contracts would help improve  
resource adequacy in regions where utilities responsible for serving new large loads 
cannot reliably do so without obtaining additional supply. Existing generators, 
including those at risk of retirement, can help satisfy increased electricity demand in 
the same way that new facilities can, making a fast-track interconnection process 
worthwhile for loads that will be served by existing generators. 
SECOND, the Commission should adopt a 60-day fast-track priority right for 
existing generators to reclaim capacity interconnection rights (“CIRs”) lost due to 
deactivation, mothballing, or other inactivity of a unit at a generating facility when the 
generating facility has the ability to increase its output from other operating units at 
the facility or through reactivation of the mothballed unit.  When CIRs are not 
transferred in accordance with existing tariff provisions, they are lost by their initial 
holder.  Pursuant to current PJM tariff provisions, for example, if CIRs are not 
transferred within one year of the deactivation of the unit to which they were initially 
assigned in an Interconnection Service Agreement, they are terminated as to that 
holder.6  Allowing an existing generator to re-secure those rights will avoid the 
 
6 Morgantown Power, LLC, 192 FERC ¶ 61,262 at P 2 (2025)(noting pursuant to PJM tariff, CIRs 
associated with a deactivated facility terminate one year from the Deactivation Date, which 
is the date a generating unit retires or is mothballed and no longer operates). 

--- PAGE 4 ---
Page | 4 
 
quagmire of the interconnection study process and its associated delays and thus 
achieve the ANOPR’s goal of “timely and orderly interconnection of large loads to the 
transmission system.”7    
In the past, the Commission has at times granted waiver of tariff provisions 
when strict adherence would lead to the loss of CIRs — indicating support for policies 
that allow existing interconnection rights to be re-captured.8  This proposal would 
avoid the need for a waiver because the Commission can memorialize a right to 
recapture CIRs by generators that can reactivate to provide additional, reliable power 
needed by large loads.   
THIRD, the Commission should explicitly recognize the benefits of siting large 
loads in proximity to existing generating facilities because close location can reduce 
or even eliminate the need for extensive, costly network upgrades.  While the ANOPR 
highlights the efficiency of studying, if practicable, the siting of large loads near or at 
the same point of interconnection as new generation,9 siting new load near or at the 
same point of interconnection as existing generation—such as a coal-fired plant—
can provide similar efficiencies.  Therefore, the Commission should encourage 
 
7 ANOPR at P 1. 
8 See, e.g., PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 192 FERC ¶ 61,137 at P 39 (2025)(rejecting tariff 
proposal that could result in CIRs “going unused” when transferred from a deactivating 
generation resource to a generation resource with a delayed commercial operation); 
Sayreville Power, LLC, 191 FERC ¶ 61,178 at P 24 (2025) (granting waiver request to allow 
generator to retain its CIRs beyond their planned expiration date so that it may return units to 
service). 
9 See ANOPR at P 20 (“to the extent practicable, load and hybrid facilities should be studied 
together with generating facilities. Such an approach will allow for efficient siting of loads and 
generating facilities and thereby minimize the need for costly network upgrades”). 

--- PAGE 5 ---
Page | 5 
 
interconnection studies that examine load and hybrid facilities under scenarios that 
consider location near existing generation to enable optimized siting, minimize 
network upgrade costs and delays, and enhance grid utilization. 
FOURTH,  generating units that reverse retirement decisions in order to serve 
large load help to offset demands the new load otherwise would have placed on the 
grid.  Therefore, the Commission should waive the proposed requirement that a 
generator undergo a reliability study if nuclear or coal-fired resource owners can 
demonstrate that the resource would have been retired under existing market 
conditions absent a commercial contract.  If a Final Rule is adopted whereby a 
generator seeking to enter suspended status as a grid resource in order to serve 
behind-the-meter co-located load would otherwise be required to undergo a 
reliability  study,10 that study should not be necessary where a nuclear or coal unit’s 
alternative course was retirement.  Maintaining such units in operation increases 
available generating capacity and mitigates the burdens and delays associated with 
network upgrades to facilitate the co-location arrangement. 
We thank the Commission for the opportunity to submit these comments.  
Sincerely, 
 
 
Michelle Bloodworth  
President and CEO America’s Power 
 
 
10 Id. at P 27. 
