--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Ensuring the Timely and Orderly 
Interconnection of Large Loads
) 
)
Docket No. RM26-4-000
 
COMMENTS OF 
AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER SERVICE CORPORATION 
 
American Electric Power Service Corporation (“AEP”), on behalf of its affiliates,1 submits 
the following comments in response to the Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) 
pursuant to the Notice of Request for Comments (“Notice”) issued by the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission (“FERC” or the “Commission”) on October 27, 2025.  We commend the 
Department of Energy (“DOE”) and the Commission for initiating this timely proceeding to 
address the interconnection of large loads and cut red tape.  Establishing a clear pathway to connect 
data centers and other large load customers to the grid at the speed required by large load 
developers requires priority action necessary to cement energy dominance.  AEP has taken steps 
within its service territory to proactively address the interconnection challenges outlined in the 
ANOPR, while ensuring that affordability for our customers remains a key focus.  AEP is 
committed to working with the DOE, the Commission, and state and regional partners to identify 
and implement further actions to ensure that our nation has the energy resources and infrastructure 
to support America’s next generation of innovation and industrial growth.   
 
1 Appalachian Power Company, Indiana Michigan Power Company, Kentucky Power Company, Kingsport Power 
Company, Ohio Power Company, Wheeling Power Company, Public Service Company of Oklahoma, Southwestern 
Electric Power Company, AEP Appalachian Transmission Company, Inc., AEP Indiana Michigan Transmission 
Company, Inc., AEP Kentucky Transmission Company, Inc., AEP Ohio Transmission Company, Inc., AEP West 
Virginia Transmission Company, Inc., AEP Oklahoma Transmission Company, Inc., and AEP Southwestern 
Transmission Company, Inc. 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
2 
I. 
Executive Summary 
The nation’s electric grid is currently facing challenges from rapidly increasing electric 
demand, largely driven by the expansion of large loads, particularly data centers.2  To address this 
challenge, DOE, as articulated in the ANOPR, proposes to standardize interconnection procedures 
and agreements for large loads, particularly those intending to co-locate with new or existing 
generation facilities at the same point of interconnection, leveraging the Commission's legal 
authority over interstate transmission.3  However, an approach which focuses solely on 
interconnecting large loads to the electric grid will not fully support rapid data center and industrial 
load growth.  The Commission must also make the necessary changes to ensure that the generation 
needed to serve that load is able to come online in a timely and efficient fashion.  It is essential for 
the Commission to use this opportunity to address the fundamental issues in generation 
interconnection, transmission planning, and cost allocation that hinder the rapid connection of 
large loads.  
First, additional generation is urgently needed to serve large loads.4  The Commission 
should quickly address generation’s inability to interconnect and inject energy into the grid in a 
timely manner with a solution that directly breaks queue backlogs.  Usually, generation must wait 
until all the upgrades necessary to accommodate its interconnection are constructed through 
 
2 In an analysis of U.S. load growth trends issued earlier this year, ICF International (“ICF”) reported that “U.S. 
electricity demand is now expected to grow 25% by 2030 and 78% by 2050 from 2023 levels” and that “peak electricity 
demand is now expected to grow 14% by 2030 and 54% through 2050”.  See Latit Batra et al., Rising Current: 
America’s Growing Electricity Demand, ICF, at 4 (2025), https://www.icf.com/insights/energy/impact-rapid-demand-
growth-us.  Data centers alone may account for as much as 12% of all U.S. electricity consumption by 2028 (up from 
4.4% in 2023).  See Arman Shehabi et al., 2024 United States Data Center Energy Usage Report, Lawrence Berkeley 
National Laboratory, at 5 (Dec. 2024), https://escholarship.org/uc/item/32d6m0d1. 
3 In Re Interconnection of Large Loads to the Transmission System, Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, Docket 
No. RM26-4-000, at P 12 (filed Oct. 27, 2025) (“ANOPR”). 
4 Data center demand in the U.S. and internationally is expected to increase by over 160% by 2030 as a result of AI 
demand, and approximately 60% of data center demand growth will need to be met with new generating capacity. 
Powering the AI Era, Goldman Sachs, at 3, 15 (2025), https://www.goldmansachs.com/what-we-do/investment-
banking/insights/articles/powering-the-ai-era/report.pdf. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
3 
redundant study processes which take years to complete.  This adds expense and significant delay 
and limits the amount of energy available to serve large loads when every available generation 
resource should be utilized.  AEP supports the application of a “connect and manage” approach (in 
tandem with other reforms, such as the entry fee model for generator interconnection described 
below) as a practical solution for the timely interconnection of generation.  Under this approach, 
all generators pay an entry fee and can rapidly connect to the grid subject to curtailment until 
supporting network transmission is planned and constructed.  Generators may start as energy 
resources for some portion of their capacity, but are on a pathway to full recognition as capacity 
resources until supporting network transmission is built.  By decoupling interconnection from 
network expansion in the near term, the grid will benefit from faster interconnection for generation, 
reduced delays from waiting for large-scale upgrades, and a flexible framework for managing grid 
reliability in real-time until the broader processes recommended in these Comments can take 
effect. 
Second, the Commission should decisively address the current generation interconnection 
models which are hindering sufficient generation from coming online quickly enough to meet 
today’s generation resource adequacy and reliability needs.  This failure is reflected in the 
significant queue backlogs and the repeated efforts by transmission providers to solve the problems 
through interconnection reforms.5  While AEP supports RTO reforms to improve the 
 
5 See e.g., PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 184 FERC ¶ 61,006 (2023), pet. for review dismissed, 126 F.4th 660 (D.C. 
Cir. 2025) (order sustaining result of order accepting subject to condition, interconnection process reform transitioning 
from a serial first-come, first-served queue process to a first-ready, first served cluster cycle approach); PJM 
Interconnection, L.L.C., 190 FERC ¶ 61,084 (2025), modified on den. of reh’g, 192 FERC ¶ 61,085 (accepting a one-
time reliability-based expansion of the eligibility criteria for Transition Cycle #2 of PJM’s existing interconnection 
queue); PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 190 FERC ¶ 61,083 (accepting tariff revisions governing surplus 
interconnection service, to facilitate the rapid expansion of existing and planned generation facilities on the PJM’s 
system);  PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Proposed Tariff Amendments for Replacement Generations, Docket No. ER26-
403-000 (filed Oct. 31, 2025); Sw. Power Pool, Inc., Submission of Revisions to the SPP Open Access Transmission 
Tarriff to Implement Consolidated Planning Process, Docket No. ER26-414-000 (filed Nov. 3, 2025); Sw. Power Pool, 
Inc., Submission of Tariff Revisions to Add the High Impact Large Load Processes and High Impact Large Load 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
4 
interconnection process, more is required.  New and different approaches need to be considered 
and implemented to ensure that severely needed generation is interconnected and available swiftly 
and efficiently.6  This is why AEP supports the widespread adoption of an entry fee model for 
generator interconnections, which integrates generator interconnection and transmission planning 
into a single streamlined process, reducing duplicative studies and expediting transmission 
upgrade identification.  It incorporates a predictable, transparent, and easy to calculate fee for 
generators to pay to connect to the grid, minimizing delays from cost disputes and preventing 
restudies as generators drop out of the queue due to unexpected and growing interconnection costs.  
This model will address the significant cost and schedule uncertainties faced by generators, which 
have resulted in delays and backlogged queues for large industrial and data center developments.   
Third, the prevalent siloed approach to transmission planning—in which there are separate, 
reactive planning processes for generation interconnection and grid expansion—will not deliver 
infrastructure fast enough to ensure the United States continues to be a leader in artificial 
intelligence and is able to grow its manufacturing base.  Widespread adoption of proactive 
transmission planning will better anticipate and plan for load and generation in an efficient and 
 
Generation Assessment, Docket No. ER26-247-000 (filed Oct. 24, 2025);  Sw. Power Pool, Inc., Submission of Tariff 
Revisions to Implement Generator Interconnection Priority Process, Docket No. 3570-000 (filed Sept. 30, 2025); 
Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 191 FERC ¶ 61,231 (2025) (order sustaining result of previous order 
accepting filing by Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., and Southwest Power Pool implementing the Joint 
Targeted Interconnection Queue framework); Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 191 FERC ¶ 61,154 (2025) 
(order accepting revisions to generation interconnection procedures to allow interconnection customers to use a 
different point of interconnection for a Replacement Generating Facility than the point of interconnection used by an 
Existing Generating Facility); Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., Revisions to Open Access Transmission, 
Energy and Operating Reserve Tariff ERAS Quarterly Study Cycle Expansion Filing, Docket No. ER25-3543 (filed 
Sept. 26, 2025) (proposed revisions to increase the number of Expedited Resource Addition Studies from ten to fifteen 
per quarter); Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 191 FERC ¶ 61,157 (2025) (order sustaining acceptance of prior 
order accepting modifications to generator interconnection study process to implement a queue cap and exemptions 
to that cap).   
6 Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 192 FERC ¶ 61,131, at P 3 (2025) (Rosner, Comm’r, concurring) (“It is critically important 
that grid operators continually look for ways to refine the efficiency and speed with which new generation can connect 
to the grid, especially as our country faces growing power needs to win the global AI race, re-shore manufacturing, 
and keep electricity affordable for everyday consumers.”). 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
5 
cost-effective manner, allowing both generation and data centers to be connected more swiftly. 
Consistent with the ANOPR’s third Principle for Reform—which encourages studying the 
interconnection of load and generation together7—such proactive planning will necessarily 
integrate the consideration of both.   
Lastly, delays and uncertainty over who must pay for transmission can prevent investment 
in new transmission needed to serve data centers and expanding load on the grid.  Disputes over 
cost allocation slow our nation’s progress and impede the connection of these loads to the system.  
To avoid time-consuming disputes and smooth the path for transmission investment, the 
Commission should establish a uniform national charge for all “backbone” transmission projects—
including, for example, high voltage transmission at 345 kV and above.  This change would be 
applicable to all customers across the United States and fund a comprehensive national expansion 
of the transmission system to interconnect new generation and serve large loads.  
These reforms to generation interconnection, transmission planning, and cost allocation, 
when implemented together, will expedite the interconnection of large loads by facilitating the 
modernization of the grid and addressing the root causes of delays.   
II. 
AEP Has Leading Experience Interconnecting and Serving Large Load Customers 
AEP is one of the largest electric utilities in the United States, serving over five million 
customers across 11 states and operates an extensive transmission network spanning more than 
40,000 miles.  AEP is experiencing a welcome and historic surge in large load activity across its 
service territory, with direct implications for transmission planning, cost allocation, and reliability 
oversight.  AEP expects over 28 GW of contracted new load by 2030, supported by binding retail 
customer financial agreements.  This figure is part of a broader pipeline of 190 GW of load 
 
7 ANOPR, at P 20. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
6 
requests.  AEP’s system peak demand is projected to increase from 37 GW to 65 GW by the end 
of the decade. 
This growth is concentrated in Ohio, Texas, and Indiana, with Ohio alone hosting over 13 
GW of data center load in its interconnection queue.  AEP expects to energize 4.7 GW of new data 
center capacity in 2025 alone, a 25% increase over 2024.  To support this expansion, AEP is 
executing a $72 billion capital investment plan, including $30 billion for transmission 
infrastructure, with a focus on expanding its 765-kV transmission backbone—the largest in the 
United States.  This robust transmission system has made AEP a preferred interconnection partner 
for hyperscale customers such as Amazon Web Services, Meta, and Google, while also positioning 
the company as a key enabler of domestic manufacturing and economic growth across its service 
territory. 
AEP was the first utility in the country to implement state-level tariff reforms to ensure 
cost recovery and preserve affordability to protect existing customers.  These reforms include 
minimum monthly usage thresholds (e.g., 85% in Ohio), long-term contract requirements (12 years 
and greater), and provisions to ensure co-located loads contribute equitably to transmission and 
reliability service costs.  These terms mitigate financial and credit risk to existing customers by 
ensuring that new data centers and large industrial loads pay their fair share of the utility’s cost of 
service and stand behind their commitments to take service.  These tariffs are tailored to the needs 
of each state with large load thresholds ranging from 25 MW to 150 MW, reflecting the sizes of 
interested large load customers in each state.  AEP has implemented these tariffs in Ohio, Indiana, 
West Virginia, and Kentucky8 and has filed similar tariff structures for state commission approval 
in Virginia, Texas, and Michigan.   
 
8 See In re Ohio Power Co. for New Tariffs Related to Data Centers and Mobile Data Centers, Docket No. 24-508-
EL-ATA (Pub. Utilities Comm’n of Ohio, June 23, 2025); Inre the Verified Pet. of Ind. Mich. Power Co. for Approval 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
7 
  AEP’s tariff reforms are a product of the current generation interconnection and 
transmission planning dynamics affecting the speed with which data centers and large industrial 
customers can connect to and be served by the grid.  These tariffs allow AEP’s utilities to manage 
the process of connecting and serving the electricity needs of large loads within the transmission 
and generation capacity constraints of the wholesale electric grid.  These tariffs manifest the 
necessity and urgency of modernizing generation interconnection and transmission planning 
frameworks to more rapidly provide service to large, non-traditional customers. 
III. 
The Commission Should Reform Generation Interconnection Processes, 
Promote Proactive Transmission Planning, and Adapt Transmission Cost 
Allocation to Support America’s Shared Interest in Rapidly Interconnecting 
Data Centers and Other Large Loads 
 
A. A “Connect and Manage” Approach Will Accelerate Generation 
Interconnection 
A flaw in most interconnection processes is the inability of new generation to interconnect 
and inject energy into the grid until all the upgrades necessary to accommodate the interconnection 
are constructed.  Under the prevailing model, most generators seek network service, which ensures 
full deliverability, even under stressed grid conditions.  This requirement often triggers extensive 
network upgrades, costing hundreds of millions of dollars and delaying projects for years.  The 
process also may lack transparency into the actual frequency or magnitude of the congestion or 
curtailment experienced by the new generator, resulting in additional cost for what may be added 
reliability for only a few hours of the year or a small MW of curtailment.  This “invest and connect” 
approach creates a missed opportunity for new generation to interconnect and be able to provide 
energy at some level to support load even when the transmission system may be constrained.   
 
of Modifications to its Indus. Power Tariff – Tariff I.P., Cause No. 46097 (Ind. Utility Regul. Comm’n, Feb. 19, 2025); 
Appalachian Power Co. and Wheeling Power Co. Appl. for Approval for Revisions to Schedules LCP and IP,  Docket 
No. 24-0611-E-T-PW (Pub. Serv. Comm’n of W. Va., March 25, 2025); and Elec. Tariff Failing of Ky. Power Co. to 
Revise its Indus. Gen. Serv. Tariff, Docket No. 2024-00305 (Ky. Pub. Serv. Comm’n, March 18, 2025). 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
8 
“Connect and manage” takes a different approach.  Generators interconnect under an 
energy-only model, accepting curtailment risk and foregoing capacity accreditation until upgrades 
are completed.  Reliability is maintained through redispatch and curtailment rather than waiting 
for the construction of transmission facilities.  Accordingly, “connect and manage” can be a 
practical solution for the timely interconnection of generation until broader process improvements 
to generator interconnection, proactive transmission system planning, and cost allocation can take 
effect to solve the generator interconnection problem on a long-term basis. 
The Electric Reliability Council of Texas’s (“ERCOT”) approach to “connect and manage” 
is a good starting point.  In ERCOT, this approach facilitates the efficient interconnection of new 
generation units by requiring only minimal upfront consideration of a new generator 
interconnection’s impact on the transmission network.  Generators may interconnect to the 
transmission grid once they satisfy technical criteria—such as power-flow studies, telemetry 
readiness, and performance compliance—even when network constraints remain or transmission 
system upgrades are incomplete.  ERCOT manages network constraints through market dispatch 
which imposes congestion and curtailment risks on interconnecting generators.  Generators are 
able to interconnect more quickly with fewer network upgrades in exchange for bearing this risk.  
ERCOT uses market price signals to identify higher-value grid upgrades via proactive transmission 
planning.  Any grid bottlenecks caused by a new generator are managed by ERCOT through market 
redispatch and curtailment, until they are later addressed through broader transmission planning 
processes.   
This model decouples interconnection from network expansion.  Deep upgrades can be 
identified and funded through proactive transmission planning, informed by congestion data and 
resource forecasts rather than reactive generator interconnection studies.  The ERCOT “connect 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
9 
and manage” system has demonstrated success in ERCOT where it has significantly reduced 
interconnection lead times.9  This market-centric congestion approach has enabled ERCOT to 
interconnect generation at a pace unmatched by other U.S. operators.  For example, in 2021 and 
2022, ERCOT interconnected 2.5 times more total capacity than PJM despite the fact that PJM is 
approximately twice as large as ERCOT in terms of peak load.10  The fundamental tradeoff is 
faster, cheaper interconnection in exchange for higher curtailment risk and no capacity 
compensation.   
In markets which are not energy-only like ERCOT, “connect and manage” complements 
the “entry fee” model (described below) by serving as an additional solution to breaking the current 
generation queue backlog and fully utilizing all generation resources available, which can provide 
energy to serve load.  More generation resources can get online at greater speed while other reforms 
to the generation interconnection process (and transmission planning) are implemented that 
enhance the efficiency and speed of getting generators fully connected with firm service without 
curtailments.11  
AEP also proposes that all generators that interconnect to the electric grid through “connect 
and manage” should be on an incremental pathway to full recognition as network resources as 
supporting network transmission is built proactively through other reformed processes, including 
 
9 See Rob Gramlich et al., Unlocking America’s Energy:  How to Efficiently Connect New Generation to the Grid, at 
110 (2024), https://www.brattle.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Unlocking-Americas-Energy-How-to-Efficiently-
Connect-New-Generation-to-the-Grid.pdf. 
10 Tyler Norris, Beyond FERC Order 2023: Considerations on Deep Interconnection Reform, at 2 (2023), 
https://nicholasinstitute.duke.edu/publications/beyond-ferc-order-2023-considerations-deep-interconnection-reform 
(“Norris 2023”). 
11 Id. at p. 14 (“To make connect and manage an improvement over status quo, proactive, holistic transmission planning 
is equally important as improved ERIS-based standards. The basic bargain is to avoid reliance on the GI process to 
support deep network upgrades and instead pursue deep upgrades through a separate planning process.”); The Brattle 
Group, Generation Interconnection and Transmission Planning, at 15 (2022), https://www.brattle.com/wp-
content/uploads/2022/08/Generation-Interconnection-and-Transmission-Planning.pdf 
(“Integrating 
generation 
interconnection into more pro-active transmission planning processes offers substantial advantages;” “The costs and 
time required to interconnect the large number of resources … can be reduced dramatically.”). 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
10 
the entry fee model described below.  In other words, there is no Energy Resource Interconnection 
Service (“ERIS”)-only option for “connect and manage” under AEP’s approach, as there is in 
ERCOT and certain other areas of the electric grid, where generators may upgrade to capacity-
supporting network status later at additional expense and with further time-consuming 
transmission planning studies.  All generators who pay the entry fee should be on equal footing 
(i.e., all generators will become network resources) and the grid should be planned to enable them 
to be capacity resources.  Generators who are currently taking ERIS service should be able to pay 
the applicable entry fee and transition to the Network Resource Interconnection Service (“NRIS”) 
pathway, and the ERIS-only option for generator interconnection should be phased out.   
B. An Entry Fee Model Will Enable a More Efficient Interconnection 
Process and Facilitate Timely Interconnection of New Generation 
 
Another significant stumbling block to efficient interconnection of generation needed to 
provide service to loads is the traditional “but-for” cost allocation methodology used to determine 
generator cost responsibility.  Under this paradigm, generator developers pay 100% of the costs of 
the incremental network upgrades necessary to connect to the grid—those that would not be built 
but for the generation interconnection.12  To identify necessary upgrades and the associated costs, 
transmission providers conduct studies based on the generation interconnection requests they 
receive in a particular queue.13  Often these studies are done on a cluster basis that involves 
multiple generator requests.  Generators dropping from the queue (and thus the cluster study), 
often trigger restudies to update the necessary network upgrades and cost allocations of the 
 
12 Standardization of Generator Interconnection Agreements and Procedures, Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103, 
at P 694 (July 24, 2003) (“[I]t is appropriate for the Interconnection Customer to pay initially the full cost of 
Interconnection Facilities and Network Upgrades that would not be needed but for the interconnection[.]”), aff’d sub 
nom. Nat’l Ass’n of Regul. Util. Comm’rs v. FERC, 475 F.3d 1277 (D.C. Cir. 2007) (“NARUC”).    
13 See, e.g., PJM OATT § IV.A Interconnection Feasibility Study (36.2); MISO OATT, Attach. X; ISO-NE OATT, 
Schedule 22 (Large Generator Interconnection Procs.), Schedule 23 (Small Generator Interconnection Procs.), SPP 
OATT, Attach. V (Generator Interconnection Procs.). 

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
11 
remaining generators in the cluster.  This iterative process slows down the interconnection process, 
results in significant queue backlogs, creates cost uncertainty for new generators seeking to 
interconnect, and engenders disputes.  One way to avoid these pitfalls is to provide upfront cost 
certainty for generators before they enter the interconnection queue.  
1. An Entry Fee Model Will Enhance Certainty and Transparency for 
Generation Developers 
The Commission should adopt an “entry fee” model where generation developers pay a 
standardized or formulaic fee or charge to cover their interconnection costs.  This fee should be 
known at the time the developer submits its request.  Because the developer will have certainty 
regarding cost responsibility upfront, this model minimizes many of the obstacles that impede the 
interconnection process and inhibit the timely interconnection of new generation.  
First, generation developers will know their interconnection cost responsibility before they 
enter the interconnection queue.  They no longer will be relying on the iterative study process or a 
queue position to define their interconnection costs.  Under the current study process, 
interconnection requests generally are studied in clusters based on queue position and cost 
allocation is based on those studies.  This makes it difficult for a generation developer to predict 
or have any certainty about the cost of its interconnection before it submits an interconnection 
request.  This uncertainty creates an incentive for developers to submit one or more speculative 
interconnection requests in the hopes of obtaining a better queue position or being included in a 
more advantageous cluster study that will result in lower interconnection costs.14  Speculative 
requests are often withdrawn when the cost allocation for the project increases beyond an 
 
14 Sw. Power Pool, Inc., Submission of Revisions to the SPP Open Access Transmission Tariff to Implement the 
Consolidated Planning Process, Docket No. ER26-414-000, at 25 (filed Nov. 3, 2025) (“SPP CPP Filing”) (“The 
GRID-C will also provide developers with greater cost certainty prior to entering the interconnection queue, which 
mitigates the incentive to submit speculative interconnection requests to test cost-optimal interconnection locations 
and fosters a more efficient interconnection study process.”). 

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
12 
interconnection customer’s expectations or a generator submits multiple requests looking for the 
most cost effective point to interconnect. Such withdrawals trigger restudies that may result in 
modified interconnection costs, increasing the uncertainty even more and potentially leading to 
disputes and delays in the interconnection process.  
In contrast, under an entry fee approach, the generation developer will be able to predict 
with a high degree of certainty its interconnection cost risk, thus eliminating the need to hedge its 
bets by submitting speculative requests.  Upfront interconnection costs also provide the generator 
with certainty as it seeks financing and right-of-way arrangements, increasing the likelihood that 
the project will progress. 
Second, how the entry fee is determined and calculated will be transparent and available to 
generation developers.  Cost allocation will no longer be determined based on the perceived 
“winners” of the interconnection studies and restudies where the results could be challenged or 
disagreed with, but rather on a known basis that is easily calculated.  The transparency and 
certainty derived from the use of an entry fee model will greatly reduce interconnection customers’ 
concerns relating to the unpredictability or level of their interconnection cost responsibility, 
thereby beneficially increasing project certainty.  
2. Structure of the Entry Fee  
 
As the entry fee model is a fairly new concept,15 there are several plausible ways the fee 
could be structured.  Guiding principles to consider in developing the entry fee include 
 
15 While the entry fee model is a relatively new concept, a form of it has been embraced by Southwest Power Pool 
Inc., (“SPP”) in its recent Consolidated Planning Process filing.  In that filing, SPP noted “[b]ecause the GRID-C will 
be determined by SPP each CPP Planning Cycle before interconnection requests are submitted, it will provide 
interconnection customers with upfront certainty regarding the costs of System Network Upgrades they will be 
required to pay to interconnect, which reduces significantly the cost uncertainty present in the interconnection process 
today.” SPP CPP Filing, at 25.  In addition, in its order approving the MISO-SPP Joint Targeted Interconnection Queue 
(JTIQ), the Commission noted, “In essence, the RTOs are using forward-looking planning, historically used for 
transmission planning, to anticipate the need for transmission facilities to accommodate the interconnection of future 

--- PAGE 13 ---
 
13 
transparency, ability to easily calculate the fee, a reasonable level of cost certainty for generators 
before they submit significant financial deposits, and consistency with the “beneficiary pays” 
principle.  Entry fees could be based on one or more of several factors: (i) the size of the generator 
(e.g., a certain dollar amount per MW of the generator’s name plate rating); (ii) the location of the 
proposed project (e.g., costs may be lower in areas where sufficient existing or planned 
transmission is available to accommodate the interconnection);16 (iii) the type of service being 
requested (which, under AEP’s proposal, would NRIS);17 or (iv) the type of generation facility 
(e.g., wind, combustion turbine, and hydro generators may have different interconnection 
requirements).  The fee could be formulaic or stated.  It also could be standardized and applied on 
a local, regional, or even more broadly on a national basis.  The key is that it is applied in a non-
preferential and non-discriminatory way.   
 
The entry fee also should be easily understandable and calculable.  This will ward off 
disputes and reassure interconnection customers they are being treated fairly and non-
discriminatorily.  Whatever the chosen structure, the entry fee needs to be consistent with the 
“beneficiary pays” principle and thus be roughly commensurate with benefits the generator 
receives from the transmission grid. 
3. Payment of the Entry Fee 
 
While the amount of the entry fee will be known at the time the interconnection customer 
enters the queue, payment terms of the fee could be structured either to require remittance of the 
full amount at the time the developer submits its request, a partial upfront payment with the 
remainder over time, or payment in monthly installments.  If the entry fee is to be collected over 
 
generation capacity and facilitate the development of those facilities.” Midcontinent Indep. System Operator, 189 
FERC ¶ 61,108, at P 197 (2024), modified on den. of reh’g, 191 FERC ¶ 61,231 (2025). 
16 See e.g., SPP CPP Filing at 26. 
17 See, e.g., SPP CPP Filing at 24. 

--- PAGE 14 ---
 
14 
time, there should be limitations on the period over which the payments are made.  For example, 
SPP in its CPP filing proposed that the payment of the entry fee for ERIS would “begin within 
thirty days of the effective date of the CPP Generator Interconnection Agreements (“GIA”) and 
will terminate thirty days prior to the expected Commercial Operation Date (“COD”) of the 
facility;” and for NRIS “payments will begin no later than the expected COD and will be paid over 
a minimum of twelve monthly installments, such that the NRIS GRID-C will be paid in full no 
later than twelve months after the COD.”18  SPP explained that these payment terms were to 
balance the interests of both generation and load.  Generation developers needed to complete 
financial transactions for transmission facilities close to the facility commercial operation date, 
while load wanted to avoid rate volatility resulting from the payments being credited on their bills 
in a single lump sum amount.19  This is just one example of a possible payment structure.  Payment 
terms can be dependent on several factors and take different forms, but they must not diminish 
transparency, certainty, and predictability of the entry fee on which generator developers will 
depend. 
 
Similarly to payment terms, there are options for handling the revenues received from the 
entry fees.  AEP supports the concept that revenues be credited to load.  This could be 
accomplished through a mechanism akin to “Contribution in Aid of Construction” used by utilities 
to offset the costs of new infrastructure necessary to serve load.  The portion of the entry fee that 
covers the costs of the “driveway” facilities (facilities solely required to interconnect the generator) 
would be directly assigned to the generator and contributions from the generator would not be 
credited to load as they would benefit only the generation customer.  The portion of the entry fee 
 
18 SPP CPP Filing at 35; id. (“Thus, the GRID-C payments are being spread over time – typically three to five 
years for ERIS GRID-C and at least a year for NRIS GRID-C —with the goal of balancing the interests of generation 
and load.”). 
19 SPP CPP Filing at 35. 

--- PAGE 15 ---
 
15 
cost associated with the network upgrades built in conjunction with the interconnection request 
would be credited to load by using it as an offset to transmission costs charged to load.    
 
Implementation of an entry fee model will benefit both new generation and load.  
Generation developers will have cost certainty going into an interconnection process, which will 
facilitate a more efficient and expedient interconnection process enabling them to come online 
much faster.  Load will benefit because more generation will be available to serve its increasing 
demand, and it will receive a rate benefit through the entry fee offset to the revenue requirement it 
is charged.  Finally, a faster more efficient interconnection process will benefit all customers, 
including large loads, such as data centers and industry vital to the nation’s economy, as well as 
residential customers by ensuring access to needed generation to keep the lights on.     
C. Transmission Planning and Investment Should Be Proactive for the 
Benefit of the Nation   
Transmission planning traditionally has been done on a reactive basis.  Under the siloed 
approach used in almost every region of the country, transmission planners study new load or 
generation interconnection requests individually and identify incremental transmission upgrades 
necessary to support those requests.  Each interconnection is treated as a one-off planning project 
or, at best, with a generation cluster study as a group of interconnections.  This results in a 
hodgepodge development of the transmission system with little thought as to how the system as a 
whole should be developed to serve overall system needs.   
The current approach will not deliver infrastructure on the timeline needed to ensure the 
United States continues to be a leader in artificial intelligence and is able to grow its manufacturing 
base.  Large load additions are increasing too quickly and in too many locations.  Left unchanged, 
a siloed reactive approach to transmission planning will result in a transmission system that is 
unable to address the needs of the modern economy and best serve the customers using that system.  

--- PAGE 16 ---
 
16 
Instead, transmission planning must become proactive.20  Planners must be able to take a 
comprehensive view of the system focusing on existing needs and areas of expected growth.  They 
must plan projects that will address all those needs in a holistic manner.  Taking a forward-looking, 
“least regrets” approach to transmission planning allows planners to plan and develop projects 
based on future needs and identify projects that will cost-effectively address those needs.   
1. 
Proactive Transmission Planning Is Necessary to Support Large 
Load Additions 
 
Proactive transmission planning incorporates realistic projections of the anticipated 
generation mix and locations, load levels, and load profiles over the lifespan of the transmission 
investment.21  To do this, proactive transmission planning utilizes scenario-based planning, a 
multi-step process that allows planners to incorporate significant uncertainties into the planning 
process. First, planners must define multiple plausible scenarios of what the future could 
realistically look like based on existing and future generation resources, accounting for additions 
and retirements and potential locations.  Planners must also account for load levels and load 
profiles over the anticipated life of the proposed transmission project or portfolio of projects under 
consideration.   
Next, planners must develop transmission plans that could work for multiple, or all, of the 
identified scenarios.  The plan should focus on the multiple benefits that transmission projects 
provide and their ability to cost-effectively address multiple needs, not just one aspect of 
transmission needs such as generation interconnections or new large load additions.   
 
20 The Brattle Group, Proactive Transmission Planning for a Clean Energy Transition, at 2-3 (2024) (citing Joe 
DeLosa III, Johannes Pfeifenberger & Paul Joskow, Regulation of Access, Pricing, and Planning of High Voltage 
Transmission in the US (2024), https://www.brattle.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/03/Proactive-Transmission-
Planning-for-a-Clean-Energy-Transition.pdf; The Brattle Group and Grid Strategies, Transmission Planning for the 
21st Century: Proven Practices that Increase Value and Reduce Costs (2021), https://www.brattle.com/wp-
content/uploads/2021/10/Transmission-Planning-for-the-21st-Century-Proven-Practices-that-Increase-Value-and-
Reduce-Costs.pdf. 
21 See id. 

--- PAGE 17 ---
 
17 
Finally, planners select a preferred plan.  This plan should incorporate defined indicators 
for planners to monitor—the outcome of an indicator will alert planners that a certain future is 
likely to occur, giving them an opportunity to change course.  Furthermore, scenario-based 
planning can be combined with multi-driver planning, a network portfolio approach, and 
interregional planning to maximize efficient planning for future needs.22  
Widespread proactive transmission planning is the solution to address the concerns 
surrounding the increasing number of large load additions because it will anticipate and plan for 
load changes based on these load interconnections and ensure that transmission capacity exists to 
accommodate those load interconnections in an efficient and cost-effective manner.23  Proactive 
transmission planning will also eliminate or reduce the need for resource intensive, reactive 
transmission network upgrade studies.  In proactive transmission planning, future interconnection 
point locations are informed by projected load growth that accounts for large load additions and 
future generator interconnection queue requests.  Therefore, when new resources and loads are 
ready to come online, there are more practicably accessible interconnection points available to 
them.  It also encourages both generator and large load customers to interconnect in places that are 
most efficient for the existing and planned transmission to accommodate their interconnection 
because the transmission capacity will be available for their use.  They will be able to interconnect 
faster and more cost-effectively.  Proactive planning will result in millions more dollars of benefits 
to consumers.  At present, under reactive planning, “for every $1 billion investment in well-
 
22 Proactive Transmission Planning for a Clean Energy Transition, at 3. 
23 See, e.g., Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc., MTEP21 Report Addendum: Long Range Transmission 
Planning Tranche 1: Executive Summary, at 21-46, https://cdn.misoenergy.org/MTEP21%20Addendum-
LRTP%20Tranche%201%20Report%20with%20Executive%20Summary625790.pdf (last visited on Nov. 20, 2025) 
(describing how MISO created its Tranche 1 portfolio of transmission projects based via proactive planning to address 
projected interconnection and reliability needs) (MTEP21 Report Executive Summary); Southwest Power Pool, Inc., 
2025 
Integrated 
Transmission 
Planning 
Assessment 
Report, 
at 
170-215 
(2025), 
https://spp.org/documents/75192/2025%20integrated%20transmission%20plan%20report.pdf. 

--- PAGE 18 ---
 
18 
planned, large-scale transmission that is delayed, it costs consumers approximately $150 million 
to $370 million in lost net benefits for each year of delay.”24   
Proactive planning will likewise reduce the need for transmission network upgrade studies, 
which are currently relied on because most transmission planning is reactive.  Under reactive 
planning, transmission plans are only responding to present—or even past—reliability needs, and 
the transmission system is not ready for new interconnections.  Thus, a network upgrade study is 
necessary to address the needs of a new interconnection.  Under proactive planning, network 
upgrade studies are far less likely to be necessary for any given project, because the proactive plan 
has already considered and prepared for the needs of future projects.  Thus, by looking ahead rather 
than behind, proactive transmission planning removes barriers to interconnection and reduces costs 
to all customers by efficiently and cost effectively identifying the transmission projects that will 
benefit the entire system.  Accordingly, the Commission should adopt reforms necessary to support 
proactive transmission planning to address the growing issues created by the increase in large load 
interconnections.25  
 
 
 
24 Zach Zimmerman, Rob Gramlich & Michael Goggin, Delaying transmission increases costs and reduced benefits 
for consumers, at II (2025), https://wiresgroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/11/Cost-of-Delayed-Transmission-
Report-by-Grid-Strategies-for-WIRES.pdf. 
25 The Commission may also want to request feedback on the potential benefits to proactive transmission planning 
which could be offered from registration of large loads with NERC.  In July of this year, NERC’s Large Loads Task 
Force issued a whitepaper in which NERC notes the unique characteristics associated with those loads necessary to 
accurately model and analyze their individual and collective impact on the electric grid.  See NERC, Characteristics 
and Risks of Emerging Large Loads, at 15 (2025), https://www.nerc.com/globalassets/who-we-are/standing-
committees/rstc/whitepaper-characteristics-and-risks-of-emerging-large-loads.pdf. 

--- PAGE 19 ---
 
19 
D. A Nationwide Cost Allocation for High Voltage Transmission Will Address 
a Critical Obstacle to the Necessary Transmission Development to Support 
Interconnection of Large Loads that Benefits the National and Economic 
Interest of All Americans 
 
Cost allocation can be the biggest obstacle to getting necessary transmission built.26  The 
delays caused by the uncertainty over who must pay for necessary transmission can prevent 
investment in such transmission.  For example, co-location can present cost allocation concerns if 
it co-located loads receive service in a manner that deviates from FERC’s core transmission cost 
allocation principles27 or if bundled retail services are misunderstood or ignored.  However, the 
thoughtful consideration of cost allocation issues need not delay the interconnection of large 
loads.28 
Given the significant national interest in ensuring that large loads can come online to 
support data centers and other industries, the Commission cannot allow parochial fights over cost 
allocation to slow our nation’s progress and impede the connection of these loads to the system.  
As the Administration has recognized, data centers are critical for national security and provide 
economic benefit to all Americans.29  To avoid these fights and smooth the path for transmission 
 
26 See, e.g., Midwest Indep. Transmission Sys. Operator, Inc., 133 FERC ¶ 61,221 (2010) (initial Commission order 
on MISO’s MVP cost allocation methodology; litigation remained active into 2018), order on clarification, 137 
¶ 61,074 (2011), aff’d in part, vacated in part sub nom., Ill. Com. Comm’n v. FERC, 721 F.3d 764 (7th Cir. 2013); 
order on remand, 156 FERC ¶ 61,034 (2016), order on reh’g and clarification, 164 FERC ¶ 61,191 (2018) Del. Pub. 
Serv. Comm'n v. PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 155 FERC ¶ 61,090 (2016) (initial Commission order on complaint 
against solution-based distribution factor cost allocation methodology for the Artificial Island Project; litigation 
remained active into 2020), order on reh’g, 164 FERC ¶ 61,035 (2018), reh’g denied, 164 FERC ¶ 61,035, order 
granting reh’g, 169 FERC ¶ 61,234 (2019), order on reh’g, 171 FERC 61,024 (2020); PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 
119 FERC ¶ 61,063 (2007) (initial Commission order on PJM’s 2005 license plate transmission rate design dispute; 
litigation continued into 2014), reh’g denied, 122 FERC ¶61,082 (2008), aff’d sub nom., Ill. Com. Comm’n v. FERC, 
576 F.3d 470 (7th Cir. 2009), order on remand, 138 FERC ¶ 61,230 (2012), reh’g denied, 142 FERC ¶ 61,216 (2013), 
aff’d sub nom., Ill. Com. Comm’n v. FERC, 756 F.3d 556 (2014). 
27 See PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 189 FERC ¶ 61,078 (2024), modified on den. of reh’g, 191 FERC ¶ 61.025 (2025).   
28 As discussed by panelists at FERC’s technical conference regarding Large Loads Co-Located at Generating 
Facilities, the driver for co-location is the need for generation – not the allocation (or avoidance of allocation) of 
transmission and distribution infrastructure costs.  See Large Loads Co-Located at Generating Facilities, Post-
Technical Conference Comments of American Electric Power Service Corporation, Docket No. AD24-11-000, at 3 
(filed Dec. 9, 2024). 
29  ANOPR Cover Letter (Oct. 23, 2025). 

--- PAGE 20 ---
 
20 
investment, AEP proposes that the Commission adopt a national cost allocation for all “backbone” 
transmission projects—that is, transmission lines that are extra high voltage, for example 345 kV 
and above (EHV transmission).  Transmission investments that are 345 kV and above provide 
benefits nationwide because they create a more robust, readily accessible transmission system for 
everyone.  They also benefit all Americans by providing the energy infrastructure needed to 
support the growing demand for energy by data centers and other infrastructure critical to the 
national economy.  
AEP has already demonstrated to the Commission that EHV transmission provides broad 
reliability benefits,30 noting in testimony that EHV transmission is “better suited for the transfer 
of large blocks of power over substantial distances” and the EHV system provides “broad regional 
benefits in terms of enabling long distance transmission activity.”31  EHV systems are essential for 
regional transactions and emergency transactions.32 
SPP’s Highway/Byway cost allocation methodology, which was adopted and approved by 
the Commission in 2011, also recognizes the broad benefits of EHV transmission.33  Under SPP’s 
Highway/Byway, the costs of facilities operating at 300 kV and above are allocated 100% across 
the SPP region on a postage stamp basis.34  One of the Commission’s key reasons for accepting 
this proposal was the fact that, in 2011, “evolving circumstances in the SPP region require 
significant expansion of its transmission system,” which included the region’s transition to “larger, 
centralized transmission system operations and regional power markets.”35   
 
30 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Initial Brief of American Electric Power Service Corp. and Allegheny Power, Docket 
No. EL05-121, at 39 (filed May 17, 2006). 
31 See id. 
32 Id. at 42. 
33 Southwest Power Pool, Inc., 131 FERC ¶ 61,252 (2010). 
34 Id. at P 10. 
35 Id. at P 65. 

--- PAGE 21 ---
 
21 
The current and projected boom in large load additions present analogous circumstances 
nationwide.  At present, as the ANOPR acknowledges, “electricity demand is expected to grow at 
an extraordinary pace” and “demand growth is now higher than at any point in the past two 
decades.”36  The nation’s transmission system is at the crux of this issue.  Like the circumstances 
in the SPP region fifteen years ago, the present circumstances require a significant expansion of 
the transmission system.  Interconnecting large loads effectively and efficiently at higher levels 
than ever before will require a more reliable and more robust transmission system.  Thus, as the 
Commission acknowledged regarding SPP, transmission system expansion with broad benefits 
over a vast region requires a cost allocation methodology that recognizes these broad benefits.  A 
national cost allocation for EHV transmission investment to enable the interconnection of large 
load customers is an extension of the Commission’s policies and precedent, necessitated by 
changed system conditions and grounded in the Federal Power Act’s requirement that rates are 
just and reasonable.   
The Commission’s implementation of a nationwide cost allocation to fund NERC provides 
a model in applying this approach to backbone transmission investments.  In Order No. 672,37 the 
Commission set forth the regulations, 18 C.F.R. § 39, to incorporate the requirements of section 
215 of the Federal Power Act, which required the selection of an electric reliability organization 
(“ERO”) to maintain and enforce reliability standards.  Under these regulations, the ERO submits, 
and the Commission approves, an annual budget.38  The costs to fund this budget are allocated 
based on “net energy for load,”39 that is, solely based on energy consumption.  Then, “all entities 
 
36 ANOPR at P 1.  
37 Rules Concerning Certification of the Electric Reliability Organization; and Procedures for the Establishment, 
Approval, and Enforcement of Electric Reliability Standards, Order No. 672, 114 FERC ¶ 61,104 (2006). 
38 18 C.F.R. § 39.4(b).  
39 N. Am. Elec. Reliability Corp., 116 FERC ¶ 61,062, at P 8 (2006) (“NERC proposes to allocate its annual reliability 
program costs among load serving entities on the basis of net energy for load.  It further proposes that each Regional 
Entity bill and collect fees from the load serving entities within its geographic boundaries.  NERC intends to submit 

--- PAGE 22 ---
 
22 
within the Commission’s jurisdiction as set forth in section 215(b) of the Federal Power Act shall 
pay any Electric Reliability Organization assessment of dues, fees, and charges as approved by the 
Commission.”40  This is because the reliability standards benefit all Americans and thus they 
should all appropriately pay for the administration and enforcement of such standards.41   
The Commission should likewise implement a national cost allocation for EHV 
transmission investment because it provides benefits to all Americans by providing the 
infrastructure necessary to win the AI race.42  Cost-causation is not an exact science.43  
Accordingly, courts and the Commission have acknowledged that adherence to cost causation 
principles does not require that cost allocation methodologies balance costs and benefits with 
“exacting precision.”44  Ultimately, the requirement is met so long as “all approved rates reflect to 
some degree the costs actually caused by the customer who must pay them[,]”45 and this is done 
by ensuring that costs are “allocated in a manner that is at least roughly commensurate with 
benefits.”46 
 
its annual budget for Commission approval, including funding for delegated activities it has assigned to each Regional 
Entity.”); Alcoa Inc. v. FERC, 564 F.3d 1342 (D.C. Cir. 2009). 
40 18 C.F.R. § 39.4(b). 
41 Kentucky Public Service Commission v. American Electric Power Service Corporation, 193 FERC ¶ 61,110, at P 
59 (FERC Nov. 7, 2025) ("Furthermore, we note the Commission has long recognized that the transmission network 
provides benefits to all transmission customers.") 
42 While the approach that the Commission implemented in the case of NERC funding—a charge based on net energy 
for load—could be the starting point in a proposed rule to adopt a national cost allocation method, the proposal would 
benefit from investigation of alternative approaches to cost recovery. 
43 See Ill. Com. Comm’n v. FERC, 576 F.3d 470, 477 (7th Cir. 2009) (holding that transmission customer's benefits 
must be “at least roughly commensurate” with the costs allocated to them). 
44 Coalition of MISO Transmission Customers Indus. Energy Consumers of Am. LS Power Midcontinent, LLC v. 
Midcontinent Indep. System Operator, Inc., 172 FERC ¶ 61,099, at P 83 n.228 (quoting Midwest ISO Transmission 
Owners v. FERC, 373 F.3d 1361, 1369 (D.C. Cir. 2004)). 
45 Id. at P 82 (quoting KN Energy Inc. v. FERC, 968 F.2d 1295, 1300 (D.C. Cir. 1992). 
46 Mun. Energy Agency of Neb. v. Pub. Serv. Co. of Colo., 189 FERC ¶ 61,099, at PP 41, 46 (2024) (citation omitted) 
(subsequent history omitted); see also Pub. Serv. Elec. & Gas Co. v. FERC, 989 F.3d 10, 13 (D.C. Cir. 2021) 
(explaining that “although the Commission need not ‘allocate costs with exacting precision,’ the costs assessed against 
a party must bear some resemblance ‘to the burdens imposed or benefits drawn by that party’” (quoting Midwest ISO 
Transmission Owners, 373 F.3d at 1368-69). 

--- PAGE 23 ---
 
23 
Here, as described above, the EHV system provides broad benefits to users of the 
transmission grid.  It creates a backbone system that allows the entire grid to function more 
efficiently and cost effectively and provides a mechanism to move large amounts of power to the 
areas where such power is needed.  As the D.C. Circuit has recognized, “regional benefits [] accrue 
throughout the grid,”47 and “[i]mprovements to an integrated grid that ‘enhance[ ] transmission 
security and reliability’ are ‘presumed to benefit the entire system.’”48  The Commission also 
consistently finds that that an integrated transmission system “is a cohesive network whose 
expansion benefits all users of the grid[.]”49  In a 2020 report prepared for Congress, Commission 
staff also recognized that high voltage transmission provides benefits on an extremely broad scale, 
and these broad benefits include “sharing of resources across regions by improving interregional 
power transfer capability; [] aiding with restoration and recovery after an event; [] improving 
frequency response; and [] enhancing the stability of the interconnected transmission system.”50  
Also, academic analysis of wholesale energy market prices in the U.S. between 2012 and 2022 has 
demonstrated that, in many cases, cross-interconnection and interregional transmission 
investments have balanced, bi-directional benefits.51  
Thus, while new transmission is necessary infrastructure to support the AI arms race, the 
benefits do not end with the users of any one of part of the system.  In the case of data centers, the 
 
47 Long Island Power Auth. v. FERC, 27 F.4th 705, 709 (D.C. Cir. 2022) (emphasis added). 
48 Paragould Light & Water Comm'n v. FERC, 144 F.4th 287, 292–93 (D.C. Cir. 2025) (emphasis added) (citing 
Midwest ISO Transmission Owners v. FERC, 373 F.3d 1361, 1369, 1371 (D.C. Cir. 2004)). 
49 Am. Elec. Power Serv. Corp., 101 FERC ¶ 61,211, at P 14 (2002).  
50 Staff of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Report on Barriers and Opportunities for High Voltage 
Transmission, at 6-10 (2020), https://www.congress.gov/116/meeting/house/111020/documents/HHRG-116-II06-
20200922-SD003.pdf; see also Southwest Power Pool, The Benefits of a Transmission Superhighway, 
https://www.spp.org/documents/10047/benefits_of_robust_transmission_grid.pdf (last visited on Nov. 20, 2025) 
(describing how a “robust transmission grid benefits everyone” and how benefits includes improved access to lower-
cost generation, more cost-effective projects to meet minimum reliability requirements, and more diverse fuels). 
51 Julie Kemp et al., Electric transmission value and its drivers in United States power markets (2025) 
https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-025-63143-5#citeas. 

--- PAGE 24 ---
 
24 
benefits expand beyond those who actually make use of the facilities in question and flow to the 
entire nation via improved reliability to the bulk power system.  Furthermore, as the President’s 
AI Action Plan states, we are “in a race to achieve global dominance in artificial intelligence 
(AI).”52  And winning this race “will reap broad economic and military benefits” which will flow 
to all Americans.53  Accordingly, it is consistent with the principles of cost causation that the costs 
of the infrastructure should be borne equally across the nation.54  A national cost allocation would 
provide an avenue for the Commission to address the urgent issues obstructing large load additions 
within the bounds of its jurisdiction.   
IV. 
Conclusion 
The United States is at a pivotal point in time where it can support the growth of new large 
loads such as data centers and domestic manufacturing—but only if new generation is efficiently 
and quickly interconnected to the Nation’s electric grid, the transmission infrastructure those 
industries rely upon is available when needed, and costs are fairly allocated. AEP appreciates the 
Commission’s consideration of its proposed reforms to accelerate generator interconnection,  
 
 
 
52 
The 
White 
House, 
America’s 
AI 
Action 
Plan, 
at 
1 
(2025), 
https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-
content/uploads/2025/07/Americas-AI-Action-Plan.pdf. 
53 Id. 
54 Transmission cost allocation is well within the Commission’s jurisdiction.  See, e.g., S.C. Pub. Serv. Auth. v. FERC, 
762 F.3d 41, 84 (D.C. Cir. 2014) (noting it was undisputed that cost allocation of transmission facilities falls under 
FERC’s jurisdiction as a practice affecting rates) (citing La. Pub. Serv. Comm'n v. FERC, 522 F.3d 378, 389–90 
(D.C.Cir.2008); Miss. Indus. v. FERC, 808 F.2d 1525, 1540 (D.C.Cir.1987); FirstEnergy Serv. Co. v. FERC, 758 F.3d 
346, 354–55 (D.C. Cir. July 18, 2014)). 

--- PAGE 25 ---
 
25 
promote proactive transmission planning, and implement nationwide cost allocation for America’s 
high voltage transmission backbone.   
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
 
/s/ John C. Crespo____________ 
John C. Crespo 
Carrie L. Bumgarner 
Jessica A. Cano 
American Electric Power Service Corporation 
1 Riverside Plaza 
Columbus, OH  43215 
Telephone: (614) 716-3727 
 
E-mail: jccrespo@aep.com 
Telephone: (614) 716-2921 
Email: jacano@aep.com 
Telephone: (614) 716-2941 
Email: clbumgarner@aep.com 
 
 
 
Counsel for American Electric Power Service 
Corporation  
 
 
 
November 21, 2025

--- PAGE 26 ---
 
26 
 
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
 
I hereby certify that on this 21st day of November 2025, I have served a copy of the 
foregoing document on the official service list compiled by the Office of the Secretary for the 
above-referenced proceeding. 
 
/s/ LaChon Turner 
LaChon Turner 
Paralegal 
American Electric Power Service Corporation 
801 Pennsylvania Ave NW 
Suite 735 
Washington, DC 20004 
(202) 383-3465 
lturner@aep.com 
 
 
