--- PAGE 1 ---
1 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
BEFORE THE  
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION  
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
COMMENTS OF THE PEW CHARITABLE TRUSTS, ENERGY MODERNIZATION 
PROJECT 
 
 
Pursuant to the October 27 notice inviting comments on the Department of Energy’s 
(DOE) proposed Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (proposed ANOPR), The Pew 
Charitable Trusts (Pew) submits these comments on the DOE’s proposed reforms to address the 
interconnection of large loads to the interstate transmission system.  
 
Pew’s Energy Modernization Initiative works with state and federal policymakers to 
build a modern, reliable, and affordable electric grid, including the adoption of local, distributed 
energy, such as home solar and batteries. As multiple studies have shown, these distributed 
energy resources (DERs) can offer diverse benefits, including consumer savings, enhanced 
capacity and reliability, as well as important resilience benefits. Last year, Pew launched its 
Distributed Energy Resources Initiative, which is working to identify policy pathways that 
accelerate the adoption of DER technologies across the United States. Pew is developing a policy 
playbook outlining steps that state and local policymakers can use to quicken the pace of DER 
deployment to build a modern, reliable, and affordable electric grid. In our view, the current 
rulemaking presents another important opportunity for expanding DER adoption across U.S. 
communities, and we urge the Commission to carefully consider and adopt approaches to 
interconnection study requirements, tariffs, and other requirements that leverage these valuable 
resources.   

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
I. 
DER Aggregations (Virtual Power Plants) Should Be Considered Alongside 
Curtailment Flexibility and Generation Commitments in Large Load 
Interconnections. 
The Department of Energy’s (“DOE”) directive under Federal Power Act (“FPA”) 
section 403 requests that the Commission initiate this ANOPR to establish a regulatory 
framework ensuring the timely, orderly, and non-discriminatory interconnection of large loads—
defined by DOE as loads of 20 MW or greater—and hybrid configurations consisting of large 
load paired with onsite generation. DOE’s directive further contemplates an expedited study 
pathway for certain load types, including curtailable or dispatchable large loads and hybrid load-
generation resources, with potential study timeframes as short as 60 days.1 
Pew encourages the Commission to recognize in this rulemaking that DER 
aggregations—commonly referred to as virtual power plants (“VPPs”)—are a cost-effective and 
near-term tool that large loads can employ to provide flexibility and operational support to the 
transmission system. VPPs have the potential to lower capacity procurement needs and defer or 
avoid costly network upgrades associated with interconnecting large loads, while supporting 
distributed energy systems that provide consumers savings.  
Allowing large load interconnection studies to include VPPs is consistent with existing 
policy under Order No. 2222, which recognizes that DERs should be able to participate in 
regional wholesale markets and can “provide a variety of benefits including: lower costs for 
consumers through enhanced competition, more grid flexibility and resilience, and more 
innovation within the electric power industry.”2 Recognizing DERs as an eligible option for large 
 
1 Wright, C. (2025) ‘Re: Secretary of Energy’s Direction that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Initiate 
Rulemaking Procedures and Proposal Regarding the Interconnection of Large Loads Pursuant to the Secretary s 
Authority Under Section 403 of the Department of Energy Organization Act’. (DOE Letter). 
2 Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (2020), FERC Order No. 2222: A New Day for Distributed Energy 
Resources, https://www.ferc.gov/media/ferc-order-no-2222-fact-sheet.  

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
load interconnection would help ensure that those large loads can utilize the full suite of 
Commission-approved wholesale market tools to mitigate capacity and network upgrade needs, 
while also managing their net demand in a manner that supports reliability, enhances 
competition, and reduces overall system costs for consumers. 
II. 
VPPs Constitute a Near-Term, Scalable, and Cost-Effective Source of Flexible 
Capacity 
 
DOE analysis finds that VPPs are already delivering tens of gigawatts of flexible capacity 
across the United States, and that with appropriate market access, they could serve 10–20 percent 
of national peak demand by 2030.3 Importantly, according to The Brattle Group, VPPs can be 
deployed on timelines shorter than traditional resources and at significantly lower cost, saving 
utilities tens of billions of dollars in capacity investments.4 VPPs are inherently modular and 
flexible, allowing them to scale rapidly, respond dynamically to system conditions, and provide 
verifiable reductions to a load’s net peak demand.  
III. Order No. 2222 Provides a Basis That Would Enable Large Loads To Use VPPs to 
Support Their Interconnection 
 
Order No. 2222 requires that RTOs/ISOs allow DER aggregators to participate directly in 
wholesale markets and to provide energy, capacity, and ancillary services. In the order, the 
Commission established that DERs “can at times effectively provide the capacity, energy, and 
ancillary services that are purchased and sold” in wholesale markets, and that “removing the 
barriers to participation” by DER aggregations “will enhance the competitiveness and in turn the 
efficiency, of RTO/ISO markets and thereby help to ensure just and reasonable and not unduly 
 
3 Downing, J. et al. (2023) Pathways to Commercial Liftoff: Virtual Power Plants. Washington, D.C: U.S. 
Department of Energy.  
4 See Hledik, R. and Peters, K. (2023) Vol 1, Real Reliability: The Value of Virtual Power Plant. rep. The Brattle 
Group.  

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
discriminatory or preferential rates for wholesale electric services.”5 Consistent with the 
Commission’s non-discrimination principles towards different technologies, the order adopts a 
“technology neutral” definition of DER to ensure that “any resource that is technically capable of 
providing wholesale services through aggregation is eligible to do so…”6  
Specifically, Order No. 2222 requires RTOs/ISOs to remove the barriers to DER 
aggregations participating in wholesale markets by: (1) recognizing heterogeneous portfolios that 
may combine distributed generation, load flexibility, and storage; (2) establishing a minimum 
size for aggregations not exceeding 100 kW; (3) implementing distribution-utility coordination 
protocols; (4) adopting metering and telemetry requirements tailored to aggregated resources; 
and (5) instituting anti-double-counting protections to ensure accurate accounting of wholesale 
and retail services.7 Furthermore, the order explicitly allows DERs that are on both the 
distribution system and customer side of the meter to participate in wholesale markets.8  
The policy objectives underlying Order No. 2222 are directly relevant to the current 
ANOPR. DER participation in wholesale markets is a well-defined, FERC-approved pathway 
through which large loads may procure and present measurable, dispatchable, and creditable 
capacity to the transmission provider as part of an interconnection request. When a large load 
procures or contracts with a VPP, it must demonstrate a verifiable reduction in its studied net 
load and a corresponding ability to contribute flexible supply during periods of system need. 
IV. Incorporating VPPs Into Large-Load Interconnection Requires Clear 
Implementation Principles 
 
5 Order 2222 at 14-15. 
6 Id. at 91-92. 
7 Office of Public Participation (2025) FERC Order No. 2222 Explainer: Facilitating Participation in Electricity 
Markets by Distributed Energy Resources[i]. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.   
8 See id. at 46. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
Principle three of the ANOPR provides that studying load and hybrid facilities together 
with generation facilities “will allow for efficient siting of loads and generating facilities and 
thereby minimize the need for costly network upgrades.”9 This principle should explicitly allow 
VPPs and flexible resources to be studied with large loads, recognizing that an aggregation of 
resources on the same system can achieve the same benefits. 
To further effectuate DOE’s directive and ensure that flexible, dispatchable, and 
distributed resources can support the reliable interconnection of large loads, the Commission 
should consider including the following principles in any proposed rule resulting from this 
ANOPR: 
A. 
Qualifying Aggregated DERs Should Clearly be Allowable In a Large Load 
Interconnection Request 
A large load should be permitted to present a contracted VPP or aggregated DER 
portfolio to reduce its studied net load by a specified MW profile, which may vary hourly 
or seasonally. Accreditation, telemetry, and verification requirements should be 
consistent with existing wholesale market rules under Order No. 2222 or the applicable 
regulatory authority in the jurisdiction of the VPP’s operations.  
B. 
DERs Within a VPP Must Satisfy Locational and Deliverability Requirements 
The Commission should consider aggregated DERs that: (1) are located within 
sufficient proximity to be able to mitigate the constraint or congestion caused by new 
demand; (2) meet any locational, deliverability, or distribution-system criteria relevant to 
the load’s own energy usage; and (3) where applicable, comply with Order No. 2222’s 
requirements for coordination with distribution utilities and anti-double-counting 
protections. 
 
9 DOE Letter. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
These criteria ensure that an aggregated DER portfolio provides real and verifiable 
support to the transmission system, avoiding any duplication of services or operational 
ambiguity. 
C. 
FERC Should Consider Directing RTOs/ISOs to Update Order No. 2222 
Compliance To Facilitate VPP Use in Large-Load Interconnection 
The Commission should also consider directing regional grid operators to update 
their tariffs to explicitly allow large loads to utilize VPPs in interconnection requests. 
Given that some RTOs/ISOs, like the Midcontinent Independent System Operator 
(MISO), will not have fully implemented Order No. 2222 until the end of the decade,10 
such updates should strive to accelerate implementation timelines to make VPPs 
available to large loads under DOE’s Section 403 proposal. 
In addition, if a regional grid operator has not implemented Order No. 2222 in the 
region in which a proposed VPP is located, the Commission should consider allowing 
large loads to seek expedited consideration of the VPP’s participation in the wholesale 
market and to be studied alongside the load or hybrid facility for interconnection. This 
limited pathway would ensure that large loads are not precluded from utilizing this 
Commission-approved category of flexible resources. 
V.  Conclusions 
Clearly recognizing aggregated DERs as a mechanism for large loads to meet 
interconnection-related capacity needs would advance the objectives of this ANOPR. By 
establishing a framework and appropriate ground rules for allowing VPPs to be studied together 
with load and hybrid facilities, the Commission can ensure that large loads have a diverse suite 
 
10 Cook, Amanda Durish (Jan 16, 2025), FERC Permits 2030 Finish Date for MISO Order 2222 Compliance. RTO 
Insider. https://www.rtoinsider.com/95916-ferc-finish-date-miso-order-2222-
compliance/#:~:text=MISO%20proposed%20a%20two%2Dstep,Order%202222%20compliance%20is%20wrong. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
of tools for flexibility and resource adequacy, accelerate interconnection timelines, and 
encourage large loads to make DER investments that can simultaneously provide direct 
consumer savings and resiliency benefits. Pew appreciates the Commission’s consideration of 
these comments. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Maureen Quinlan 
Sr. Manager, Clean Grid & Energy 
The Pew Charitable Trusts 
901 E Street, NW, Washington, DC 20004 
