--- PAGE 1 ---
COMMENTS OF THE THERMAL BATTERY ALLIANCE 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
Ensuring the Timely and Orderly Interconnection of Large Loads   
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Chairman Laura V. Swett   
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission   
888 First Street NE   
Washington, DC 20426 
 
Dear Chairman Swett and Commissioners: 
The Thermal Battery Alliance (TBA) submits these comments in response to the 
Commission’s Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANOPR), Ensuring the Timely 
and Orderly Interconnection of Large Loads. TBA is a coalition of leading U.S. thermal 
energy storage system manufacturers dedicated to transforming the industrial and power 
sectors, strengthening U.S. manufacturing, and enhancing grid reliability while lowering 
energy costs for all.  The ANOPR presents a timely opportunity to modernize the 
regulatory framework governing large-load interconnection in ways that support 
competitive neutrality, innovation, risk-taking, and system efficiency. 
TBAs comments are organized according to the main themes in our policy 
recommendations, but each section identifies the relevant principles in the Commission’s 
ANOPR. This structure respects the Commission’s framework while providing analysis 
grounded in economic principles and competition-focused perspectives. Throughout these 
comments, TBA emphasizes that the reforms under consideration can significantly 
strengthen market performance by enabling flexible loads to participate on fair terms and 
respond dynamically to price signals. Allowing large flexible loads the ability to 
connect expeditiously, manage their wholesale risks and commit to dispatchability 
will support a more affordable, resilient grid for all customers.  
I. FERC’S AUTHORITY AND THE COMPETITIVE RATIONALE FOR 
LARGE-LOAD INTERCONNECTION REFORM   
ANOPR Principles 1, 2, 3 
The ANOPR explains that large-load interconnection falls within the Commission’s 
jurisdiction over transmission service under the Federal Power Act (ANOPR ¶¶ 6–11). 
TBA agrees that the Commission has authority to establish a framework ensuring that 
1 

--- PAGE 2 ---
large-load interconnection is governed by just, reasonable, and non-discriminatory 
practices.  
The jurisdictional line drawn by the ANOPR—providing for FERC jurisdiction over 
loads and hybrid facilities greater than 20 MW connected to the transmission system—is 
reasonable. Facilities above this size have grid impacts that require monitoring by the 
transmission system operator.  20 MW is the threshold used by FERC for large generator 
interconnection procedures,1 and such facilities have more rigorous modeling 
requirements as part of these procedures.2 
From a competition perspective, interconnection rules play a central role in market entry 
conditions. When tariffs treat all loads as inflexible peak contributors, they distort 
competition, raise barriers to entry, and suppress innovation in flexible industrial 
technologies. The ANOPR’s call for a modernized, consistent load-interconnection 
structure is therefore essential not only for reliability but for strengthening competition. 
By enabling flexible loads to compete on the basis of their actual operational profiles, the 
Commission reduces regulatory frictions, supports entrepreneurial risk-taking, and 
improves market efficiency. ERCOT has demonstrated the value of establishing rules that 
allow for integrated market participation of loads and hybrid facilities. Texas’ Private Use 
Network rules, enabling participation of “energy parks” which may integrate load, 
storage, and generation components, has contributed to the region being one of the most 
competitive locations for new load and hybrid facilities. 
II. CHARACTERISTICS AND SYSTEM VALUE OF FLEXIBLE AND 
HYPER-FLEXIBLE LOADS   
ANOPR Principles 4, 5, 14 
Flexible, and particularly hyper-flexible loads such as new technologies like thermal 
energy storage (TES), represent a significant opportunity for enhancing market 
performance.  Long duration, highly flexible storage technologies with high charge to 
discharge ratios can provide continuous energy output over multi-day periods while only 
charging during periods of low energy demand and prices, when there is minimal stress 
on the grid. This operational profile allows these hyper flexible loads to avoid periods of 
peak scarcity while absorbing energy during low-value hours. In doing so, these hyper 
flexible and price sensitive loads improve price formation, mitigate congestion, reduce 
2 See, e.g. PJM Manual 14G, Attachment B-2 (requiring all inverter-based projects greater than 20 MW 
to submit a dynamic model). 
1 See Standardization of Generator Interconnection Agreements & Procs., Order No. 2003, 104 FERC   
61,103 (2003), order on reh’g, Order No. 2003-A, 106 FERC   61,220, order on reh’g, Order No. 
2003-B, 109 FERC   61,287 (2004), order on reh’g, Order No. 2003-C, 111 FERC   61,401 (2005), 
aff’d sub nom. Nat’l Ass’n of Regul. Util. Comm’rs v. FERC, 475 F.3d 1277 (D.C. Cir. 2007). 
2 

--- PAGE 3 ---
wasted energy from existing generators, and improve utilization of existing infrastructure, 
resulting in lower costs for all customers. 
The potential scale of such hyper flexible loads is large. For example, by 2030 TES 
deployment alone will represent many gigawatts of flexible demand over time—meaning 
that appropriate regulatory treatment is essential to realizing its market and reliability 
benefits. Notwithstanding recent criticism of the prospects of demand flexibility by 
certain large loads as merely a “regulatory fiction,”3 hyper-flexible loads like TES are 
being installed now with the operational capability and business model incentive to make 
robust, enforceable and dependable flexibility commitments.  These loads tend to have 
low load factors and high price sensitivity, which increases their flexibility. Furthermore, 
TES can ramp up and down within milliseconds based on price and/or grid operator 
signals. Such commitments are fundamentally different in nature from commitments to 
curtail during emergencies made by high load factor customers with a high value of lost 
load, where such commitments are financial in nature and not directly enforceable by the 
grid operator. The ANOPR’s framework acknowledges the potential role of flexible loads, 
but TBA encourages the Commission to more explicitly recognize the unique operational 
capabilities of hyper-flexible loads as central to modernizing load interconnection. 
III. MODELING AND STUDY PRACTICES FOR FLEXIBLE LOADS   
ANOPR Principles 6, 7, 8 
Accurate modeling is essential for ensuring fair competition. The ANOPR seeks 
comment on how flexible and curtailable loads should be studied (ANOPR ¶¶ 24–25). 
TBA strongly recommends that interconnection studies explicitly incorporate enforceable 
curtailment commitments and multi-day load-shifting capabilities. FERC should require 
transmission providers to offer a mechanism for load and hybrid facilities to commit to be 
curtailable and, as applicable, dispatchable, and provide for such commitments to be 
appropriately accounted for in modeling assumptions.   
When a load enforceably commits to avoid peak periods and has the technical capability 
and durable business model to do so, its interconnection study should not assume 
peak-period operations. Current modeling practices often inaccurately assume flexible 
loads will operate inflexibly, resulting in assignment of unnecessary network upgrade 
costs, resource requirements and reserve margin. This prevents large load customers from 
moving through the interconnection process and obtaining grid access, even when they 
are capable of reliable operations using existing system infrastructure. 
3 https://www.monitoringanalytics.com/reports/PJM_State_of_the_Market/2025/2025q3-som-pjm.pdf at pp 
2-3. 
3 

--- PAGE 4 ---
Such mis-modeling functions as a regulatory barrier to competition, encouraging only 
high-load factor and low-flexibility loads, resulting in an under-utilized grid and higher 
costs for consumers. When the Commission ensures that modeling reflects actual 
operational behavior, loads that can and make an enforceable commitment to avoid peak 
demand will receive cost assignments consistent with cost causation. This strengthens 
competitive neutrality between flexible and inflexible loads and improves the efficiency of 
market entry and investment decisions. 
IV. FLEXIBLE-LOAD INTERCONNECTION PATHWAYS AND QUEUE 
REFORM   
ANOPR Principles 7, 8, 11 
TBA supports the development of interconnection pathways specifically tailored to 
flexible loads. The Commission should require transmission providers to provide such 
loads with expedited interconnection treatment by giving them queue priority. In addition, 
transmission providers should be required to develop streamlined study procedures for 
such loads so as to facilitate reduced study timelines for loads committing to avoid peaks 
and follow operator signals for curtailment during reliability events.   
Queue reform is essential for reducing entry barriers for innovative industrial 
technologies. Queue priority is appropriate because loads that can demonstrate 
asset-backed flexibility pose substantially lower system risks during periods of grid stress 
and should therefore be eligible for accelerated review. 
The Commission should provide clear standards for demonstrating flexibility, including 
long-term enforceable commitments to respond to RTO instructions, committed 
operational profiles, and, where appropriate, provisions allowing loads to opt in to direct 
operator control during system emergencies. Such structures, including faster 
interconnection for long-term non-firm transmission service with load dispatchability 
requirements, strengthen incentives for flexible behavior, reduce uncertainty, and support 
market-based risk management strategies. 
V. RTO INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS AND PEAK-AVOIDANCE SIGNALS   
Aligned with ANOPR Principles 4, 7 
TBA recommends that the Commission require RTOs to provide transparent, mandatory 
operational signals indicating periods of anticipated congestion, peak demand, or system 
stress to flexible loads that interconnect via a non-firm transmission service. Flexible 
loads should be able to rely on these signals to make real-time and day-ahead operational 
decisions. This is consistent with competitive market design: transparent price and 
4 

--- PAGE 5 ---
system-condition information allows market participants to manage their risk exposure, 
respond to grid needs, and improve overall system performance. RTO signals for 
mandatory curtailment of flexible loads can help optimize grid operations.  Where RTOs 
are already developing flexible load interconnection and service pathways, FERC should 
encourage their progress, allowing for later compliance filings should FERC adopt 
standard requirements.  
VI. NON-FIRM SERVICE OPTIONS FOR FLEXIBLE LOADS   
ANOPR Principles 6, 7, 8 
To facilitate the streamlined interconnection study process described above, and provide 
for just and reasonable transmission rates,  transmission providers should be required to 
offer non-firm transmission service appropriate for loads that have committed to avoid 
specific constraints. A non-firm service offering would allow customers to elect the level 
of firmness that best suits their operational and risk-management preferences. Flexible 
loads that select non-firm service and can avoid peak loads should receive reduced 
interconnection and transmission upgrade requirements, and should avoid all network 
resource and resource adequacy/capacity requirements. Critically, loads and hybrid 
facilities taking such service should not be obligated to secure commensurate Network 
Resources to serve the load or hybrid facility, as the non-firm nature of the service allows 
the customer to be curtailed when Network Resources are not available. Allowing loads 
to interconnect on a non-firm basis would address a key barrier to timely interconnection 
for many customers, as the need to secure Network Resources (which may not be 
available, and even where available add costs) frequently prevents the rapid 
interconnection of new flexible loads. 
This approach aligns risk-bearing with cost responsibility, reinforces market signals, and 
supports innovation in industrial load management. 
VII. CO-LOCATION OF GENERATION AND LOAD   
ANOPR Principles 3, 4, 5 
TBA strongly encourages the Commission to adopt a clear policy supporting the 
co-location and adjacent location of generation and flexible loads (forms of dispatchable, 
curtailable “hybrid facilities,” as that term is used in the ANOPR). Hybrid facilities 
enable customers to hedge price exposure physically, reduce congestion costs, and 
mitigate system impacts by reducing gross withdrawals from the grid during peak 
periods. Under the ANOPR framework (ANOPR ¶¶ 20–23), hybrid configurations should 
be studied based on net load and the customer’s enforceable commitment to limit or shift 
consumption to avoid capacity needs. Hybrid facilities are a powerful tool that reduces 
5 

--- PAGE 6 ---
barriers to market entry and enhances the ability of firms to manage risk through 
investment in complementary technologies.  
Hybrid facilities may involve different configurations of curtailable load,  electric storage 
and generation resources. For example, a curtailable load such as a TES facility would 
require energy but not capacity from a co-located or adjacent generation resource. 
Designation as a hybrid facility should not prevent the generation component of the 
facility from offering its capacity into the market where the co-located or adjacent load 
can separately curtail and does not need the capacity.    
VIII. COST ALLOCATION AND COST CAUSATION   
Aligned with ANOPR Principles 8, 9 
Cost allocation should reflect the principle that customers pay the costs they impose on 
the system, minus any benefits they provide. Flexible loads that avoid peak demand 
(including based on grid operator signals) do not cause peak-driven upgrades or capacity 
additions and should not be assigned such costs. When modeling assumptions reflect 
technical capabilities, realistic load shape forecasts, price sensitivity, enforceable 
commitments and hybrid facility strategies, cost assignments become more accurate and 
more consistent with competitive neutrality. This improves the efficiency of investment 
decisions and ensures that tariff design does not favor legacy technologies over innovative 
ones. 
IX. RELIABILITY AND ENFORCEABLE FLEXIBILITY   
ANOPR Principles 10, 11 
The ANOPR seeks comment on reliability considerations related to flexible loads 
(ANOPR ¶¶ 28–30). TBA encourages the Commission to distinguish between 
enforceable flexibility, such as that provided by TES, and contractual demand response. 
Enforceable flexibility is flexibility that grid operators can rely on, consistent with the 
load’s operational capabilities, business model (i.e., value of lost load compared to 
financial penalties, whether the flexibility is asset-backed, whether the flexibility is an 
inherent part of the load’s purpose) and, where appropriate, willingness to opt-in to direct 
operator control during system emergencies.  In particular, asset-backed flexibility is 
more predictable, more reliable and more durable because it arises from technological 
and operational capabilities rather than administrative arrangements. Recognizing truly 
enforceable flexibility improves reliability analysis and strengthens the market’s ability to 
integrate advanced industrial technologies. 
X. IMPLEMENTATION AND TRANSITION STRUCTURES   
6 

--- PAGE 7 ---
ANOPR Principles 12, 13 
TBA supports the development of pro forma tariff language establishing flexible-load 
interconnection service, followed by compliance filings from transmission providers. In 
the interim, transmission providers should be encouraged to develop tariff mechanisms 
enabling flexible-load participation even before a final rule is issued. To provide the 
market with clarity during the transition, the Commission should articulate clear rules for 
how entities currently proceeding through state-jurisdictional processes will be treated. 
We recommend that the Commission state, as soon as feasible, that until FERC has 
accepted a transmission provider’s compliance filing and the transmission provider has 
begun accepting interconnection requests pursuant to the FERC-jurisdictional process, 
entities may continue to submit interconnection requests into state-jursidictional 
interconnection processes. Further, the Commission should specify that entities that have 
submitted an interconnection request pursuant to a state-jurisdictional process have the 
option of continuing with that process, and make clear that interconnection agreements 
obtained through such a process shall remain valid.   
At the same time, customers should have the option to instead pursue the new 
FERC-jurisdictional pathway (in addition to pathways through any particular RTO).  The 
Commission has authority to set forth transition rules such as these, and has previously 
taken a similar approach to jurisdictional transitions.4 In addition, existing customers 
should have the option to elect flexible-load non-firm transmission service. 
The Commission should also consider a follow-on rulemaking to address issues requiring 
additional stakeholder analysis. The Commission may provide, for example, for the rapid 
development of a basic pro forma interconnection process, coupled with guidelines on 
topics that require further development. This would provide for an initial period of 
flexibility for transmission providers, to be followed by more detailed requirements that 
phase in once developed by the Commission into fully-implementable pro forma 
language.  
XI. WHOLESALE MARKET ACCESS  
4 See, e.g., Participation of Distributed Energy Res. Aggregations in Markets Operated by Reg'l 
Transmission Organizations & Indep. Sys. Operators, 172 FERC   61,247, 62,661 at PP 101-103 (2020) 
(Order No. 2222) (“[W]hile we are herein declining to exercise jurisdiction over the interconnections 
of distributed energy resources to distribution facilities for the purpose of participating in distributed 
energy resource aggregations, the Commission may revisit this policy decision in the future . . . . we 
recognize that such distributed energy resources may already have interconnected pursuant to 
procedures that were accepted by the Commission prior to the effective date of this final rule. 
Therefore, to minimize disruption to existing interconnection agreements for distributed energy 
resources, we are not requiring distributed energy resources that already interconnected under 
Commission-jurisdictional procedures to convert to state or local interconnection agreements.”).  
7 

--- PAGE 8 ---
Aligned with ANOPR Principles 3, 14 
FERC rules currently create an uneven playing field for some of the most flexible loads. 
For example, TES resources that dispatches only electricity will purchase electricity 
through wholesale transactions; a TES resource that dispatches both heat (to an industrial 
customer) and electricity (as a wholesale capacity market participant or through a power 
purchase agreement), would potentially be both a wholesale and retail customer of 
electricity; a TES resource dispatching only thermal energy would be a retail customer. 
These three configurations behave similarly or identically on the grid, provide similar 
value to the grid by increasing energy generation and sales during periods of low demand 
and prices, and similarly rely on wholesale market access to price follow and avoid peak 
periods. Furthermore, using TES as a wholesale asset can allow sophisticated industrial 
customers capable of managing wholesale market risks to access low cost energy to 
support American reindustrialization. TBA recommends clarifying that wholesale 
purchases of electricity for conversion into resale as thermal energy qualify as wholesale 
transactions. Allowing TES to access wholesale markets directly improves competitive 
neutrality, reduces grid costs, and supports innovation in industrial energy cost 
management. 
XII. CONCLUSION 
The ANOPR presents a crucial opportunity to improve competitive market performance, 
reduce regulatory barriers, and encourage affordable and reliable industrial energy use. 
By aligning interconnection policy with the operational realities of flexible and 
hyper-flexible loads, the Commission can improve affordability, support innovation and 
strengthen the reliability and efficiency of the electric system. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Isaac Brown 
Executive Director  
Thermal Battery Alliance 
 
8 
