--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
Interconnection of Large Loads  
) 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
to the Interstate Transmission System 
) 
 
 
 
 
REPLY COMMENTS OF  
TALEN ENERGY CORPORATION 
ON INTERCONNECTION OF LARGE LOADS TO THE INTERSTATE 
TRANSMISSION SYSTEM 
Talen Energy Corporation (“Talen”) files these reply comments to encourage the Federal 
Energy Regulatory Commission (“Commission” or “FERC”) to proceed with caution in any action 
taken following the proposed Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) in order to 
preserve the federal/state jurisdictional balance established under the Federal Power Act (“FPA”) 
and decades of precedent.  FERC should also ensure that any action it takes does not result in 
undue discrimination against existing generation resources that are critical for reliability.  
Likewise, the Commission should soundly reject proposals—such as those advanced by the 
Independent Market Monitor of PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (“IMM”)—that would grant PJM 
Interconnection, L.L.C. (“PJM”) “discretion”1 to discriminate in favor of “bring your own 
generation” (“BYOG”) arrangements or selectively restrict load interconnection.  These ill-advised 
measures conflict with open-access principles, risk fragmenting competitive markets, and 
undermine the reliability of the transmission system as a whole.  Ultimately, the only sustainable 
path to reliably serve all load is to encourage the development of new generation through 
 
1 Talen rejects the notion that the IMM is asking the Commission to give PJM the “discretion” to favor BYOG 
proposals and transactions.  Substantively, the IMM seeks to have FERC order PJM to implement a BYOG policy. 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
2 
transparent, market-based mechanisms that provide clear investment signals and maintain 
regulatory certainty. 
I. COMMENTS 
 
A.  
The Act of Interconnecting a Large Load with the Transmission System is Inherently 
Tied To Retail Jurisdiction and FERC Should Not Encroach Upon States’ 
Jurisdiction.  
As Talen explained in its initial comments,2 the act of interconnecting a large load with the 
transmission system encompasses more than transmission service alone.  For end-use customers 
receiving retail service, the delivery of energy—particularly for large loads—is inseparable from 
retail distribution, which falls squarely within state jurisdiction.  FPA Section 201(b) reserves to 
the states exclusive authority over “facilities used for the generation of electric energy” and 
“facilities used in local distribution” as well as retail sales.3  The Commission’s jurisdiction is 
expressly limited to “the transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce and the sale of 
electric energy at wholesale in interstate commerce.”4  As the Supreme Court recognized in New 
York v. FERC5 and reaffirmed in FERC v. Electric Power Supply Association,6 FERC’s authority 
does not extend to retail sales or local distribution. 
Even if large loads were to connect “directly to transmission facilities,” as the ANOPR 
contemplates,7 the ANOPR fails to define the term “directly” and it remains unclear how a large 
 
2  
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Docket No. RM26-4-000, Motion to 
Intervene and Comment of Talen Energy Corporation on the Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate 
Transmission System at 5 (Nov. 21, 2025). 
3  
16 U.S.C. § 824(b). 
4  
Id.  
5  
535 U.S. 1 (2002).  
6  
577 U.S. 260 (2016), 
7  
ANOPR at P 18. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
3 
load or hybrid facility could directly connect to the transmission system without also connecting 
with facilities that qualify as distribution facilities under the Commission’s seven-factor test.8  
Practically, attempting to resolve the threshold jurisdictional question posed in the 
ANOPR—namely, whether FERC should assert jurisdiction over large load interconnections—
would undoubtedly trigger lengthy litigation between the Commission and the states.  Such 
disputes would undermine the cooperative federalism framework of the FPA, delay regulatory 
certainty under Sections 205 and 206, and hinder timely development of new generation resources 
needed to meet reliability challenges.  There is no need to trigger new jurisdictional battles that 
would only serve to impede progress and create uncertainty for market participants when FERC 
can issue orders in any of the pending proceedings that already have fully developed records on a 
much faster timeline.   
B.  
FERC Should Ensure There is No Undue Discrimination Against Existing Generation 
 
The Commission should ensure no existing generation resources face undue discrimination 
in any action taken.  Proposals that require new large load customers to bring their own new 
generation are discriminatory.  Similarly, enhanced reliability studies that apply disproportionate 
requirements to large loads contracting with existing generation as opposed to new generation are 
unlawful and will result in undue discrimination against existing generation.9  Instead, the 
Commission should allow existing generation resources to compete on equal footing with new 
generation resources to serve large load customers.  
 
8  
See Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Docket No. RM26-4-000, 
Comments of the Pennsylvania Office of the Consumer Advocate and Delaware Division of the Public Advocate at 
5-7 (Nov. 21, 2025). 
9  
See ANOPR at P 27; Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Docket No. 
RM26-4-000, Supporting Comments of Constellation Energy Generation, LLC at 3 (Nov. 21, 2025).  

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
4 
Talen shares Constellation Energy Generation, LLC’s perspective that policies favoring 
new generation at the expense of existing resources risks accelerating retirement of highly reliable, 
dispatchable, and baseload units.10  We have already seen thousands upon thousands of MWs 
prematurely retire due to failed resources adequacy decisions and policies.  These detrimental 
policies are partly responsible for the future resource adequacy concerns the Commission faces.  
The Commission should not repeat and perpetuate such failed policies.  Rather it should recognize 
that maintaining resource adequacy is not simply about adding new capacity; it requires a balanced 
approach that preserves existing assets while integrating new resources to meet fast-growing 
demand.  This will not happen if the Commission creates policies that favor only new resources 
that distort market signals and undermine reliability.  To ensure all load is served, new and existing 
resources must be allowed to compete on a level playing field, without structural preferences.11  
C. 
FERC Should Reject the IMM’s Proposal for PJM to Prioritize Large Load 
Interconnections that Bring New Generation 
 
The IMM argues that PJM must have explicit authority to interconnect large new data 
center loads only when they can be served reliably, defined by both transmission capability and 
resource adequacy.12  The IMM asserts that current PJM practices—allowing interconnection 
without sufficient capacity—are unjust and unreasonable because they compromise reliability and 
impose significant costs on other customers.13  
 
10  
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Docket No. RM26-4-000, Supporting 
Comments of Constellation Energy Generation, LLC at 3 (Nov. 21, 2025). 
11  
See Id.  
12  
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Docket No. RM26-4-000, Complaint 
of the Independent Market Monitor for PJM at 3 (Nov. 25, 2025). 
13  
Id. at 2-4.  

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
5 
To address these issues, the IMM proposes requiring new large load customers to bring 
their own new generation as a purported market-based solution to avoid reliability problems and 
cost shifts.  The IMM contends that this “bring your own generation” or “BYOG” requirement 
would eliminate uncertainty in load forecasting, prevent blackouts, and reduce reliance on 
emergency measures such as Reliability Must-Run agreements or FPA Section 202(c) orders.14  
The IMM suggests that this requirement is not unduly discriminatory because it aligns costs with 
the impacts of large loads on the system.15 
The IMM’s suggested approach should be rejected.  It is unlawful and deficient from a 
policy perspective.  Conditioning customer interconnections on BYOG or instructing PJM to deny 
service conflicts with bedrock open-access principles FERC established in Order No. 888 and 
Order No. 2000,16 which mandate non-discriminatory transmission service under a Commission-
approved tariff.  Such policies would create structural preferences, undermine competitive 
markets, and introduce regulatory uncertainty, which would in turn deter investment and fragment 
resource planning.  Reliability and market efficiency are best achieved through coordinated 
regional planning and market-based mechanisms that provide clear price signals—not through ad 
hoc and discriminatory interconnection restrictions. 
 
14  
Id. at Attachment B—IMM Critical Issue Fast Path Executive Summary. 
15  
Id.  
16  
See Regional Transmission Organizations, Order No. 2000, 65 Fed. Reg. 809 (January 6, 2000), order on 
reh’g, Order No. 2000-A, 90 FERC ¶ 61,201 (2000), aff’d sub nom. Pub. Util. Dist. No. 1 of Snohomish County, 
Washington v. FERC, 272 F.3d 607 (D.C. Cir. 2001); Promoting Wholesale Competition Through Open Access Non-
discriminatory Transmission Services by Public Utilities and Recovery of Stranded Costs by Public Utilities and 
Transmitting Utilities, Order No. 888, FERC Stats. & Regs. P 31,036 (1996), order on reh’g, Order No. 888-A, FERC 
Stats. & Regs. P 31,048 (1997), order on reh’g, Order No. 888-B, 81 FERC ¶ 61,248 (1997), order on reh’g, Order 
No. 888-C, 82 FERC ¶ 61,046 (1998). 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
6 
The IMM’s proposal that PJM should determine which loads may interconnect based on 
an internal resource adequacy (and not transmission capability) assessment17 is inconsistent with 
FERC precedent and fundamental principles of open access and non-discrimination.  Order Nos. 
888 and 2000 require Regional Transmission Organizations (“RTOs”) to provide transmission 
service under a Commission-approved tariff on a non-discriminatory basis to all eligible 
customers.18  Instructing PJM to pick winners and losers among loads would undermine the 
Commission’s open-access framework and invite litigation over undue discrimination, delaying 
urgently needed reliability solutions. 
FERC has consistently held that open access is essential to competitive markets and 
reliability.  Selectively restricting interconnection rights or conditioning them on self-supply 
undermines these principles and introduces structural preferences that will distort market 
outcomes.  Such an approach would effectively create a two-tiered load system—one for loads 
that can finance generation and another for those that cannot—which is contrary to the 
Commission’s long-standing policy of ensuring equal access to transmission service. 
From a reliability perspective, prioritizing BYOG arrangements does not guarantee system 
stability and could harm resource adequacy.  Prioritizing BYOG arrangements will also create two 
tiers of generation— new and existing.  Prioritizing new generation will once again expedite the 
premature retirement of existing generation and exacerbate existing resource adequacy issues.  
 
17  
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Docket No. RM26-4-000, Complaint 
of the Independent Market Monitor for PJM at 3 (Nov. 25, 2025). 
18  
See Regional Transmission Organizations, Order No. 2000, 65 Fed. Reg. 809 (January 6, 2000), order on 
reh’g, Order No. 2000-A, 90 FERC ¶ 61,201 (2000), aff’d sub nom. Pub. Util. Dist. No. 1 of Snohomish County, 
Washington v. FERC, 272 F.3d 607 (D.C. Cir. 2001); Promoting Wholesale Competition Through Open Access Non-
discriminatory Transmission Services by Public Utilities and Recovery of Stranded Costs by Public Utilities and 
Transmitting Utilities, Order No. 888, FERC Stats. & Regs. P 31,036 (1996), order on reh’g, Order No. 888-A, FERC 
Stats. & Regs. P 31,048 (1997), order on reh’g, Order No. 888-B, 81 FERC ¶ 61,248 (1997), order on reh’g, Order 
No. 888-C, 82 FERC ¶ 61,046 (1998). 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
7 
Conditioning interconnection on BYOG would also fragment planning processes, discourage 
participation in centralized capacity markets, and potentially lead to inefficient siting of generation 
resources.  In turn, these unsupported policy choices would increase costs and operational risks.  
Reliability depends on coordinated regional planning and market-based investment signals, not 
discriminatory requirements imposed on certain classes of individual customers. 
In short, FERC should reject any proposal that allows PJM (or any other RTO/ISO) to deny 
interconnection or prioritize BYOG arrangements.  Instead, the Commission should reaffirm its 
commitment to non-discriminatory open access, resource adequacy through market-based 
mechanisms, and coordinated regional planning—principles that have underpinned reliable service 
and competitive markets for decades. 
D.  
The Only Way To Reliably Serve All Load is to Encourage the Development of New 
Generation and Retention of Existing Generation Through Market-Based 
Mechanisms  
 
The way to ensure all loads are reliably served is by ensuring there are sufficient generation 
resources to meet the forecasted exponential growth in demand.  The fundamental underlying issue 
of resource adequacy will not be solved solely through a rulemaking process addressing large load 
interconnection.  Supporting market-based mechanisms designed to ensure sufficient generation 
resources are available to serve load demand is more pressing (and within the Commission’s 
jurisdiction) than the issues raised by the ANOPR. 
To facilitate continued resource adequacy, including both building new generation in a 
timely manner and retaining existing resources, the Commission must ensure that price signals 
accurately reflect scarcity and reliability needs.  Only when markets send clear signals can 
developers make informed investment backed decisions. 
The Commission should focus on strengthening market-based mechanisms in order to 
address the foundational issue of resource adequacy and how to encourage new generation to be 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
8 
built as quickly as possible while retaining existing generation.  PJM’s Open Access Transmission 
Tariff (“OATT”) already contains an efficient, market-based solution—the Reliability Backstop 
Auction (“RBA”)—that, with modifications, can address issues of resource adequacy by sending 
accurate price signals to generation developers.  As Talen explained previously, the RBA process 
is a market-based mechanism designed to guarantee sufficient generation will be available to 
ensure system reliability when there is a lack of sufficient capacity committed through the 
Reliability Pricing Model (“RPM”) auctions.19  When the backstop mechanism is triggered, PJM 
is required to make a filing with FERC for approval to conduct the RBA in order to secure 
additional generation capacity (or base load resources) on a cost-of-service basis for a term of up 
to 15 years.20  During the offer window, sellers submit cost-of-service based offers specifying 
price, capacity, location, technical details, requested term of up to fifteen years, and the first full 
Delivery Year for which the resource will be available.21  Multi-year offers clear the auction in 
order of the lowest total cost offer and receive a multi-year commitment for the term that they 
offered.22  
Talen suggests modifying the RBA so that the auction is triggered when the RPM auctions 
clear below 98% of the reserve margin requirement two base residual auctions in a row, rather than 
the current trigger of the base residual auctions clearing below 99% of the reserve margin three 
auctions in a row.  Changing the trigger window to two auctions, rather than three auctions, is 
necessary under the current circumstances with significant future load growth expectations.  The 
RBA’s guarantee of a multi-year term will stimulate generation development, enabling developers 
 
19  
PJM OATT—Attachment DD § 16.  
20  
Id. at §§ 16.3, 16.4. 
21  
Id. at § 16.4. 
22  
Id. at § 16.4(d)(1). 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
9 
to respond quickly to meet the communicated resource adequacy needs.  Furthermore, the 
Commission should direct PJM to develop a Reliability Resource Initiative-like interconnection 
process which will expedite the interconnection of all resources selected under the RBA 
mechanism.  Expediting interconnection of resources selected under the RBA mechanism will 
guarantee that projects developed expressly to meet resource adequacy needs are able to bring the 
additional energy resources onto the network and relieve reliability concerns as quickly as 
possible.  For the reasons discussed above and in Talen’s initial comments, the Commission should 
order all RTOs/ISOs to develop similar market-based mechanisms. 
II. CONCLUSION 
 
Talen respectfully urges FERC to preserve the jurisdictional balance under the FPA, to 
avoid undue discrimination against existing generation, and to reject proposals that favor BYOG 
or selectively restrict load interconnection.  The Commission should instead focus on market-based 
solutions that incentivize sufficient generation and maintain regulatory certainty to ensure 
reliability. 
 
                                                                      Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
/s/ William S. Scherman 
William S. Scherman 
Christopher J. Polito 
Melinda J. Warner 
Vinson & Elkins LLP 
2200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW 
Suite 500 West 
Washington, DC 20037 
 
 
Jennifer Mansh 
Senior Vice President, Regulatory Counsel 
Erin Alexander 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
10 
 Senior Regulatory Counsel 
Talen Energy Corporation 
600 Hamilton St., Suite 600 
Allentown, PA  18101 
Jennifer.Mansh@TalenEnergy.com 
Erin.Alexander@TalenEnergy.com 
 
 
                                                                      Counsel for Talen Energy Corporation  
December 5, 2025 
 
 

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
11 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
 
I hereby certify that I have this day served the foregoing document upon each person 
designated on the official service lists compiled by the Secretary in these proceedings. 
Dated at Washington, DC, this 5th day of December 2025. 
 
/s/ Melinda J. Warner  
 
Melinda J. Warner 
Vinson & Elkins LLP 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
