--- PAGE 1 ---
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System 
 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
  
 
JOINT COMMENTS OF THE DISTRIBUTED CAPACITY PARTIES 
 
In response to the above captioned Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“Large 
Load Interconnection ANOPR”), Cloverleaf Infrastructure (“Cloverleaf”), Spark Community 
Investment Company d/b/a Sparkfund (“Sparkfund”), and Voltus, Inc., (“Voltus”)1 (collectively, 
the “Distributed Capacity Parties”) submit the following comments highlighting the capabilities 
of demand-side and advanced technologies to support the rapid interconnection of large loads. In 
light of this historic moment, the Distributed Capacity Parties respectfully urge the Federal 
Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC” or “Commission”) in any subsequent rulemaking2 to 
direct the Regional Transmission Organizations/Independent System Operators (“RTO/ISOs”) to 
develop mechanisms for granting expedited interconnection studies to large loads that provide 
2 The Distributed Capacity Parties acknowledge that parties may contest FERC’s jurisdiction to issue a Notice of 
Proposed Rulemaking (“NOPR”) on large load interconnection.  The Distributed Capacity Parties do not take a 
position on FERC’s jurisdiction. 
1 Voltus is a leading distributed energy resource (“DER”) aggregator that provides a platform to enable consumers to 
connect their distributed energy resources including demand response to energy markets. Voltus identifies 
distributed energy resources, develops the aggregations, bids into wholesale markets, dispatches DERs, and 
performs the settling and reporting. Voltus operates aggregations of DERs on behalf of consumers in every ISO/RTO 
market in the United States. 
Page 1 of 8 
 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
curtailable and/or dispatchable distributed assets (aka Distributed Capacity3) capable of 
mitigating potential system constraints attributable to the new large loads. The ANOPR Seventh 
Principle4 should include incremental Distributed Capacity in the form of load flexibility, 
storage, and/or generation capacity whose location can address capacity and transmission 
constraints projected to be caused by the new large loads, even if such capacity is located on the 
distribution system.  
Distributed capacity technologies include dispatchable resources such as load flexibility, 
storage (e.g., 1-5 MW distribution-connected batteries), and distributed generation, as well as 
advanced technologies like grid enhancing technologies. Distributed capacity technologies may 
be located on the distribution system,5 whether behind the meter, in front of the meter, or 
“around” the meter. Distributed capacity assets currently provide critical grid services at 
wholesale,6 making them a critical tool today to accelerate large load interconnections. 
I.​
INTRODUCTION 
Recognizing the impacts of large load additions on the transmission system and 
wholesale rates, and responding to the observable step-change in the volumes and types of 
6 See, e.g., Stephanie Bieler, Cara Goldenberg, Avery McEvoy, Katerina Stephan, Alex Walmsley, Aggregated 
Distributed Energy Resources in 2024: The Fundamentals, NARUC/NASEO/RMI p. 30 (July 2024), available at 
https://pubs.naruc.org/pub/98FBE453-02C0-1FE3-0249-3A456BA1E3E7 (indicating a minimum set of bulk power 
system grid services that aggregated distributed energy resources provide today).  
5 FERC has defined a DER as “any resource located on the distribution system, any subsystem thereof or behind a 
customer meter. These resources may include, but are not limited to, electric storage resources, distributed 
generation, demand response, energy efficiency, thermal storage, and electric vehicles and their supply equipment.” 
Order No. 2222, 172 FERC   61,247, P 1 n.1 (2020). In the same order, FERC further noted, “The revised definition 
of distributed energy resource that we adopt in this final rule is technology-neutral, thereby ensuring that any 
resource that is technically capable of providing wholesale services through aggregation is eligible to do so, which 
enhances competition in the RTO/ISO markets and, in turn, helps to ensure that these markets produce just and 
reasonable rates.” Id. at P 114. 
4 The Seventh Principle in the Large Load Interconnection ANOPR is: “Seventh, the interconnection study of large 
loads that agree to be curtailable and hybrid facilities that agree to be curtailable and dispatchable should be 
expedited. The system operator's ability to control such facilities through curtailment and/or dispatch must be 
sufficient for the system operator to integrate the facility into both operations and system planning.”). 
3 
See, 
e.g., 
Andy 
Lubershane, 
“The 
price 
of 
power 
grids” 
(Apr. 
7, 
2025), 
https://steelforfuel.substack.com/p/the-price-of-power-grids.  
Page 2 of 8 
 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
planned new loads, the instant ANOPR seeks to standardize the large load interconnection 
process to ensure “timely and orderly” interconnection. Several of the fourteen outlined ANOPR 
principles deal with the study of hybrid or co-located load and generation arrangements. But 
traditional generators will take years to build, even with massive capital investments by 
hyperscalers and others seeking to connect new large loads.7  
Distributed capacity assets are installed today across critical footprints, are readily 
installable en masse, and may be aggregated into utility-scale assets on a timeline of months 
rather than years.8 Wholesale market demand response—which is primarily commercial and 
industrial load—has been contributing to affordability and reliability for over a decade and can 
scale rapidly. In 2023 alone, the Southwest Power Pool (“SPP”) added approximately 431 MW 
new demand response resource capability, equivalent to a large power plant.9 Another 500 MW 
power plant could be added by interconnecting to the distribution system a mere 200 batteries of 
1-5 MW size. Residential resources can also be mobilized: a recent report by Rewiring America 
identifies an additional 93 GW of needed data center capacity through 202910 but also finds that 
“hyperscalers could more than meet their total planned capacity needs by paying for battery 
storage as well as rooftop solar for homes well suited for it.”11 Proving that distributed residential 
11 Wyent et al. at 5. 
10 Wyent et al. at 2. 
9 FERC, 2024 Assessment of Demand Response and Net Metering, at 14 (Dec. 2024), available at 
https://www.ferc.gov/news-events/news/ferc-staff-issues-2024-assessment-demand-response-and-advanced-meterin
g.  
8 See Cora Wyent, Miki Verma, and Wael Kanj, Homegrown energy: How household upgrades can meet 100 
percent 
of 
data 
center 
demand 
growth, 
Rewiring 
America 
(2025), 
available 
at 
https://www.rewiringamerica.org/research/homegrown-energy-report-ai-data-center-demand; see also Jesse Cohen, 
Lauren Shwisberg, Mark Dyson, How Virtual Power Plants Can Help the United States Win the AI Race (Nov. 6, 
2025), available at https://rmi.org/how-virtual-power-plants-can-help-the-united-states-win-the-ai-race.  
7 See, e.g., Tom Rutigliano and Claire Lang-Ree, Large Load CIFP: NRDC Solution Components, Natural 
Resources 
Defense 
Council 
p. 
2 
(Oct. 
14, 
2025), 
https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/committees-groups/cifp-lla/2025/20251014/20251014-item-03c---nrdc-prop
osed-options.pdf (presentation given, as part of PJM Interconnection LLC’s recent Large Load Addition Critical 
Issue Fast Path process, highlighting time-lags for new generation projects and associated price relief, and noting 
that “a new project that was ready to go the day after the 2025/26 BRA results will not realistically lower 
capacity prices until 2033/34.”). 
Page 3 of 8 
 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
assets can add capacity fast, Arizona Public Service’s Cool Rewards thermostat program has 
brought 40 MW of capacity annually in recent years, and Ontario tapped 90 MW of household 
flexibility in just six months.12 If the Commission truly wants to bring all American resources to 
bear in service of interconnecting large loads, Distributed Capacity is one of the only resource 
types that can be enlisted on a timeline that matches the urgency of the challenge at a scale that 
counts.   
To fully realize these benefits at wholesale and meet the intent of the ANOPR—and 
consistent with FERC’s non-discriminatory treatment of such resources as developed in Order 
Nos. 719, 745, 841, and 222213—any subsequent rulemaking should promulgate guidelines on 
how distributed resources can be leveraged to reduce grid constraints in key regions, thereby 
freeing headroom for appropriately sited new large loads. The following section of these 
comments offers guidelines within the framework of the ANOPR’s fourteen principles.  
II.​
GUIDELINES 
TO 
ENABLE 
EFFICIENT 
UTILIZATION 
OF 
DISTRIBUTED CAPACITY  
A.​
Interconnection Reform Should Be Defined to Solve System 
Constraints at the Level at Which They Arise. 
​
Large loads face interconnection delays for several reasons, including insufficient 
capacity to supply new load reliably, the need for costly network upgrades to bring incremental 
peak power to the location of new loads, and the additional time required for Transmission 
Owners (“TOs”) to study the foregoing system impacts. The current ANOPR targets these 
mechanisms under the basic premise that load and generation configurations that add less strain 
13 Order No. 719, 125 FERC   61,071 (2008); Order No. 745, 134 FERC   61,187 (2011); Order No. 841, 162 FERC 
  61,127 (2018); Order No. 2222, 172 FERC   61,247 (2020).  
12 Cohen et al., supra note 8. 
Page 4 of 8 
 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
to the transmission system should be prioritized for interconnection. To achieve this 
prioritization, the ANOPR states that load and generation should be studied for interconnection 
holistically (ANOPR Principle Three), that interconnecting load bringing generation should be 
studied based on the actual volume of its net withdrawal or injection needs (ANOPR Principle 
Five), and that configurations imposing less system stress should be incentivized with the 
“carrot” of expedited interconnection (ANOPR Principle Seven). 
​
These comments endorse the above principles while expanding on them to ensure that 
“electrically proximate” or “adjacent” grid assets—assets that can mitigate the constraints 
imposed by new loads where those constraints actually occur—are also considered in study 
prioritization, netted against load withdrawals for study purposes, and included in 
speed-to-power incentive structures.14 
B.​
New Large Loads Should Be Studied Together With Distributed 
Capacity in the Relevant Footprint. 
New large loads that bring their own capacity—in whatever form—should be studied 
together with that capacity. Data center developers, hungry for solutions, have already proposed 
Bring-Your-Own Capacity constructs.15 To this end, the existing ANOPR Principle Three, “load 
and hybrid facilities should be studied together with generating facilities,” should explicitly 
15  See Jeff St. John, Can crowdsourcing help solve the data-center power crunch? (last accessed Nov. 21, 2025), 
available 
at 
https://www.canarymedia.com/articles/virtual-power-plants/voltus-supply-data-center-energy-needs-cloverleaf 
(“The right way to serve data center load quickly, at scale, and less expensively and more sustainably, is to leverage 
the existing resources on the grid as efficiently as possible,” said Brian Janous, Cloverleaf’s chief commercial 
officer.”). 
14 The effective use of distributed capacity to support large-load interconnections depends on close coordination with 
the distribution utilities that own and operate the underlying systems. Because processes to integrate distributed 
capacity are fundamentally state-jurisdictional, utilities retain responsibility for ensuring that any distributed 
resource deployed to mitigate local or transmission constraints can be safely integrated into the distribution system. 
For this reason, FERC could direct the RTOs/ISOs to consider distributed capacity in connecting large loads, while 
specifics would likely involve contractual arrangements between a distribution utility, the large load, and the 
distributed capacity provider. 
Page 5 of 8 
 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
include study of incremental resources in the relevant grid area,16 whether or not those resources 
look like traditional utility-scale power plants. The ANOPR notes the rationale that “siting a 
large load near or at the same point of interconnection as a new generating facility could reduce 
the network upgrades needed to interconnect only the load or only the generating facility.” 
Similarly, siting a new large load while considering the location of installed but underutilized 
grid resources and proposed aggregations of the same can save on network upgrades. For 
instance, “latent” demand flexibility can meet incremental capacity needs by reducing power 
draw from the grid, thereby freeing up network capacity. Operationally, a hyperscaler could 
contract with a battery installer to develop new batteries in the area of a relevant transmission 
and/or capacity constraint. Studying this contracted project together with the load’s 
interconnection could be within the purview of ANOPR Principle Three.  
C.​
Large Loads That Bring Locationally Relevant New Capacity Should 
Receive Expedited Interconnection. 
The existing ANOPR Principle Seven asserts that “the interconnection study of large 
loads that agree to be curtailable and hybrid facilities that agree to be curtailable and 
dispatchable should be expedited.”17 This Principle recognizes the mitigated transmission and 
capacity impacts of sites whose withdrawal or injection to the grid is responsive to a signal from 
the system operator during transmission-constrained periods and system peaks, and finds that 
load that is willing today to interconnect under these curtailment/dispatchability conditions 
should be given expedited treatment.  
However, to realize these benefits, new capacity supporting large loads need not be 
physically co-located at the facility, but can be distributed across the geographic area within 
17 Large Load Interconnection ANOPR at P. 24.  
16 The “relevant footprint” would vary by RTO/ISO. 
Page 6 of 8 
 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
which the new load will impact system constraints, provided that the system operator has the 
requisite level of control to integrate the facility into operations and system planning.18  
ANOPR Principle Seven should be broadened to leverage all available resources.  The 
Principle as written does not recognize the reduced impact of an interconnecting load that brings 
on (contracts for) demand-side flexibility or capacity not physically “within the fence-line” of 
the facility19 but still appropriately located to relieve constraints. Such capacity can be considered 
in tranches: a new load may have local impacts that require some amount of flexibility or 
capacity near or at the same point of interconnection, while it is sufficient to meet additional 
constraints with resource(s) within the load’s delivery zone or wholesale market region. Subject 
to these constraints, capacity—including batteries, generation, and demand response 
(DR)—should be geographically transferable in the form of capacity credits as defined by the 
wholesale market, or within the TOs system planning paradigm. 
D.​
Existing Barriers to Distributed Capacity Must Be Addressed 
To unlock the capabilities of existing distributed capacity, barriers to participation by 
aggregated resources in capacity, energy, and ancillary service markets should be rectified. 
Delays in Order No. 2222 implementation, utility data access issues, and other challenges 
significantly limit the development of latent flexibility today. As this ANOPR demonstrates, the 
need to unlock latent load flexibility and distributed generation that can rapidly alleviate 
transmission and capacity scarcity is more urgent than ever. In today’s unprecedented load 
growth environment, and with new utility scale generation and network upgrades often years 
19 See, e.g., Elizabeth K. Whitney, “This Week in Hyperscaling: Deep Dive on Data Center Flexibility,” (Nov. 5, 
2025),  https://elizabethkwhitney.substack.com/p/this-week-in-hyperscaling-deep-dive. 
18 Such capacity configurations may be termed “electrically proximate” or “adjacent” and should be understood as 
an extension of co-location. 
Page 7 of 8 
 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
away, every kilowatt-hour of “bridge” capacity counts. The industry is ready and willing to 
provide this distributed capacity as policy choices allow.  
III.​
CONCLUSION 
 A wide variety of distributed capacity technologies can support the expedited 
interconnection of new loads without the need for physical co-location. Interconnection reform 
should seek to take advantage of this opportunity. The Distributed Capacity Parties thank the 
Commission for its consideration of these comments and its recognition of the criticality of an 
all-of-the-above approach that incentivizes not only new generation but also latent and quickly 
deployed Distributed Capacity to support the interconnection of new large loads.  
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
/s/ David Berry 
David Berry 
Chief Executive Officer 
Cloverleaf Infrastructure 
712 Main Street 
Houston, TX 77002 
713.578.0148 
Dberry@cloverleafinfra.com   
/s/ Allison Wannop 
Allison Wannop 
Vice President, 
Regulatory Affairs & Wholesale 
Markets 
Sparkfund 
617.548.6221 
allison.wannop@sparkfund.co  
/s/ Kimaya Abreu 
Kimaya Abreu 
Sr. Manager, Regulatory 
Affairs 
Voltus, Inc. 
2443 Fillmore St. 
San Francisco, CA 94115 
609.994.7686 
kabreu@voltus.co  
 
Dated: Nov. 21, 2025 
 
 
Page 8 of 8 
 
