--- PAGE 1 ---
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate 
Transmission System 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
COMMENTS OF ORACLE AMERICA, INC. 
Oracle America, Inc. (Oracle) appreciates the opportunity to comment on the proposed 
advance notice of proposed rulemaking that the Secretary of Energy released for consideration 
and final action by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Commission).1  In the AI Action 
Plan, the White House recognized that “[t]he United States is in a race to achieve global 
dominance in artificial intelligence (AI).”2  One of the most significant and widespread delays 
Oracle encounters when siting data centers in the United States is access to sufficient energy.  
Oracle welcomes this opportunity to explore ways to address access to energy so that we can 
support the Administration’s efforts to accelerate AI – and all the significant benefits it will 
yield, including greater efficiency, improved safety and reliability, expanded access to services, 
and enhanced economic competitiveness.3   
Oracle is unique as both a developer and operator of AI infrastructure and AI 
applications.  Oracle’s product and service offerings are at the forefront of AI innovation, 
providing the interoperable, intelligent platform necessary to deploy AI at scale.  Oracle is 
enabling the training of AI models and facilitating AI reasoning on both public data and privately 
 
1 Notice Inviting Comments, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 27, 2025); see also Notice Granting 
Extension of Time (Nov. 7, 2025). 
2 Winning the Race – America’s AI Action Plan, THE WHITE HOUSE, at 1 (July 2025), 
https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Americas-AI-Action-Plan.pdf (“AI Action 
Plan”).  
3 See, e.g., Notice of Request for Information; Regulatory Reform on Artificial Intelligence, 90 Fed. Reg. 
46422 at 46423 (Sept. 26, 2025). 

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
 
held data, such as the information in Oracle’s databases.4  Our products and services include 
enterprise applications and infrastructure offerings that are delivered worldwide through a 
variety of flexible and interoperable IT deployment models.  To avoid single points of failure, 
Oracle’s AI applications and its cloud services allow access to multiple data centers in multiple 
locations.  With exponentially increasing demand for applications incorporating AI into their 
functionality, data storage, and transfer, bringing more locations online is therefore critical for 
both resiliency and capacity.   
Deploying AI at scale requires building and powering data centers at scale to develop, 
train, deploy, and house AI applications.  Secretary Wright correctly identified that “all 
Americans and domestic industries [must] have access to affordable, reliable, and secure 
electricity.”5  AI is emerging as a key domestic industry, crucial to America’s national and 
economic security.  The Administration can materially bolster U.S. AI dominance by 
streamlining processes, freeing up time and resources, and incentivizing growth for infrastructure 
deployment both in the United States and in trusted partner/allied nations abroad.6   
The Commission should support efforts to streamline administrative procedures and 
harmonize standards related to load sheds and down time.  Interconnection, while important, is 
 
4 Oracle, Larry Ellison Keynote on Oracle’s Vision and Strategy: Oracle AI World 2025, YOUTUBE (Oct. 
14, 2025), https://www.youtube.com/live/4eCFmbX5rAQ; see also Oracle, Clay Magouyrk Keynote on 
Building the Cloud for You: Oracle AI World 2025, YOUTUBE (Oct. 15, 2025), 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fR9ooQGVA98 (affirming that Oracle’s Oracle Cloud 
Infrastructure’s goals are to deliver the highest performance, lowest cost, and most secure infrastructure 
possible and to be available wherever customers need the cloud); Oracle, Mike Sicilia Keynote on Oracle 
AI Powering Your Business: Oracle AI World 2025, YOUTUBE (Oct. 14, 2025), 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CVF5CsDW9pU (“[Oracle is] delivering trusted AI that’s 
transforming organizations in every industry”). 
5 Letter from Chris Wright, Secretary of Energy, to David Rosner, Chairman, et al., FERC, at 1 (Oct. 23, 
2025), https://www.energy.gov/sites/default/files/2025-10/403%20Large%20Loads%20Letter.pdf.  
6 See Comments of Oracle America, Inc., Docket No. OSTP-TECH-2025-0067 (Oct. 27, 2025).  Among 
other things, certain reforms related to backup power generation would materially accelerate AI 
infrastructure deployment. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
 
just one piece of the regulatory puzzle that entities seeking to power a data center must solve.  
Oracle encourages the Commission to examine processes and regulations in ways to encourage 
speed to decision making generally.  For example, the Commission could explore imposing 
decision shot clocks on its own cases.  Shortening longer comment periods and limiting 
intervenor and reply comment rounds to a single round will allow for public participation 
without creating a heckler’s veto.  Likewise, the Commission could explore ways to streamline 
backstop permitting procedures.  With respect to the notice of proposed rulemaking in response 
to Secretary Wright’s letter, the Commission could explore ways to address pain points that stem 
from the patchwork of regulations and practices around the country.  For example, the 
Commission could encourage ways to harmonize load shedding practices as well as downtime 
calculations.    
Winning the AI race with an American tech stack requires powering data centers here in 
the United States and abroad as fast as possible.  The Commission can assist in this effort by 
acting on Secretary Wright’s letter, streamlining its processes, and harmonizing key standards.    
Respectfully Submitted, 
ORACLE AMERICA, INC. 
By:    Peter Lord 
 
 
 
Peter Lord  
Senior Vice President, Strategic Initiatives 
 
901 F Street, NW 
 
Suite 800 
 
November 21, 2025  
 
 
 
Washington, DC 20004 
