--- PAGE 1 ---
1 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA   
BEFORE THE  
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION  
  
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate  
) 
RM26-4-000  
Transmission System   
 
 
 
)  
  
INITIAL COMMENTS OF  
THE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI 
  
 
On October 23, 2025, pursuant to Section 403 of the Department of Energy (DOE) 
Organization Act, the Secretary of Energy (Secretary) issued a directive to the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission (FERC) to initiate an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking 
(ANOPR) for FERC’s consideration and final action. The ANOPR focuses on reforms to the 
interconnection processes for large loads connecting to the transmission system. FERC 
subsequently issued a Notice Inviting Comments on October 27, 2025. 
 
 
I. Service and Communication 
 
 
All pleadings, correspondence and other communications related to this proceeding  
 
should be directed to: 
 
Rodney Massman 
John D. Borgmeyer 
General Counsel 
Asst. General Counsel-Regulation 
Public Service Commission of the                 Public Service Commission of the 
State of Missouri 
 
 
              State of Missouri 
P.O. Box 360  
P.O. Box 360 
 
  
 
Jefferson City, MO 65102 
Jefferson City, MO 65102 
(573) 751-7510 
(573) 751-7504 
              rodney.massman@psc.mo.gov 
john.borgmeyer@psc.mo.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
 
II. Background 
 
The Public Service Commission of the State of Missouri (Missouri PSC) is a “state 
commission” as defined in Section 1.101(k) of the Commission’s Rules of General 
Applicability.1 Missouri law authorizes the Missouri PSC to regulate rates, charges and terms of 
service for the sale and distribution of electricity by public utilities to consumers in the state.2 
Missouri has retained a vertically integrated regulatory structure. 
 
The Missouri PSC has approved electrical corporations under its jurisdiction to be 
members of two Regional Transmission Organizations (RTOs):  the Midcontinent Independent 
System Operator, Inc. (MISO) and the Southwest Power Pool, Inc. (SPP). Ameren Missouri, a 
MISO member, serves St. Louis and portions of eastern, central, and northwestern Missouri. 
Evergy Missouri Metro and Evergy Missouri West, serving Kansas City and western Missouri, 
and The Empire District Electric Co. d/b/a Liberty, serving southwest Missouri, are members of 
SPP. The Missouri PSC appreciates the opportunity to comment on the ANOPR.3 
 
III.  Summary of Comments 
 
The Missouri PSC appreciates the Secretary’s interest in providing large loads the 
opportunity for timely, orderly and non-discriminatory connection to the transmission system. 
Large loads present an unprecedented challenge for the electric power industry and regulators. 
The Missouri PSC agrees with the Secretary that interconnecting and serving these new large 
loads cannot interfere with affordable, reliable and secure electric service for all Americans and 
domestic industries. 
 
1 18 C.F.R. 1.101(k). 
2 Section 386.250 Revised Statutes of Missouri (RSMo)(2016). 
3 The Missouri PSC has also endorsed the initial comments of the Organization of MISO States, Inc. (OMS) in this 
docket. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
 
 
The State of Missouri has acted on these priorities, along with MISO and SPP. The 
ANOPR raises complex legal, policy and technical questions that warrant a careful and flexible 
approach to avoid unintended consequences. FERC should narrowly tailor its final rule in 
conformity with legal precedent and record evidence. FERC should exercise its rulemaking 
authority under the cooperative framework of the Federal Power Act. 
 
IV.  Comments of the Missouri PSC 
A. 
FERC should draw on existing approaches as it crafts a final rule. 
 
Large loads must be able to interconnect to the electric system in a timely, orderly and 
non-discriminatory manner. At the same time, state and federal regulators must work together to 
ensure that providing the extraordinary amounts of power these customers demand does not 
interfere with the right of all customers to safe and adequate electric service at just and 
reasonable rates. Innovation in artificial intelligence (AI) technology and the next generation of 
American manufacturing will require substantial investment, with implications for the public 
interest at the national, state and local levels. States and RTOs are already addressing these new 
challenges. 
 
Beginning in 2024, the Missouri PSC hosted a series of energy summits called 
PowerMO, bringing together state and federal regulators and policymakers to confront the 
challenges of load growth, resource adequacy, and affordability. In August 2025, Missouri 
Senate Bill 4 took effect. Among other provisions, the legislation requires electric utilities in the 
state to develop retail tariffs for large loads that protect other customers from unjust and 
unreasonable rates.4 The Missouri PSC is currently evaluating utility tariff proposals under this 
 
4 Section 393.130.7, RSMo (2016, Supp. 2025). 

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
 
new legislation. The law also strengthened Missouri’s integrated resource planning (IRP) 
requirements and procedures to meet the state’s evolving resource adequacy needs.5 
 
In October 2025, SPP filed tariff revisions to address the interconnection of High Impact 
Large Loads (HILLs) and the interconnection of generation resources specifically serving those 
large loads.6 SPP’s proposal includes processes to study the impact of large loads and maintain 
the reliable operation of the transmission system.7 In MISO, the Expedited Project Review 
(EPR) process allows the RTO to advance urgent transmission projects in order to accommodate 
large load additions.8 Both the SPP and MISO procedures compliment retail tariffs enacted under 
state authority, leaving no gaps between state and federal regulation of large load 
interconnections. 
 
FERC’s final rule should draw from existing RTO approaches. Both MISO and SPP 
developed their large load interconnection provisions through stakeholder engagement, and thus 
they provide examples of effective approaches that FERC should incorporate into its final rule. 
The MISO and SPP provisions also properly aim at the interstate transmission system that the 
Federal Power Act (FPA) places within federal jurisdiction, and neither MISO nor SPP 
improperly dictate the terms and conditions of retail sales to end-use customers. SPP specifically 
states that nothing in the HILL proposal “should be construed to preempt any state law, including 
but not limited to, state laws pertaining to the retail sales of electricity, retail wheeling of 
electricity, generation siting, load and generation co-ownership, or load and generation 
operation.”9 
 
5 Section 393.1900, RSMo. (Supp. 2025). 
6 Southwest Power Pool, Inc., FERC Docket No. ER26-247. 
7 Id. Transmittal Letter pg. 4. 
8 MISO MTEP25 Report, pg. 4 (https://cdn.misoenergy.org/MTEP25%20Chapter%201%20-
%20Transmission%20Planning%20Overview720401.pdf?v=20250929111625). 
9 ER26-247, Proposed Tariff, Attachment BA § 3. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
 
 
Combining and enhancing elements of the SPP and MISO approaches to compliment 
state jurisdiction can provide mutual benefits. FERC could create a uniform approach that meets 
the Secretary’s goal of timely, orderly and non-discriminatory transmission interconnection 
procedures while allowing states to innovate and compete within their jurisdictions. Standardized 
study procedures and a defined interconnection queue could reduce regulatory burden and 
uncertainty for large load customers, protect the safety and reliability of the transmission system, 
uphold cost causation principles,10 protect customers from stranded costs, and mitigate the risks 
of speculative projects that complicate state-level load forecasting and resource planning. A final 
rule that preserves state and local authority can help reduce the time and cost of siting new 
facilities. FERC should draw from existing stakeholder-endorsed approaches to produce a final 
rule that provides regional flexibility and survives legal scrutiny. 
 
B. 
FERC should strive to complement, not conflict with, state jurisdiction. 
 
The ANOPR relies on Section 403 of the Department of Energy Organization Act, which 
authorizes the Secretary to propose rules, regulations, and statements of policy of general 
applicability with respect to any function within FERC’s jurisdiction.11 The Administrative 
Procedure Act requires any such rule to be within FERC’s statutory jurisdiction and supported by 
substantial evidence on the whole record.12 The ANOPR raises questions of fact and law that 
FERC will need to clearly address. 
 
 
10 FERC is not authorized to approve a pricing scheme that requires customers to pay for facilities from which they 
derive no benefits, or benefits that are trivial in relation to the costs sought to be applied. Illinois Commerce 
Commission v. FERC, 576 F.3d 470, 476 (7th Cir. 2009). 
11 42 U.S.C. § 7173(a). 
12 5 U.S.C. § 706(2). 

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
 
1. 
FERC’s final rule should respect the Federal Power Act’s bright line. 
 
The Federal Power Act (FPA) defines FERC’s regulatory jurisdiction.13 Prior to the FPA, 
states regulated all aspects of the electric industry under their sovereign police powers.14 In 1935, 
Congress in the FPA carved out two issues for federal oversight: the transmission of electric 
energy in interstate commerce, and the sale of electric energy at wholesale in interstate 
commerce, including all rules and practices affecting the prices for those interstate transactions.15 
FERC’s authority is limited to such practices that “directly affect” those rates and charges within 
its jurisdiction.16 
 
The FPA also limits FERC’s jurisdiction by preserving a “zone of exclusive state 
jurisdiction,”17 including retail sales of electricity (i.e., sales directly to users), along with 
“facilities used for the generation of electric energy,” and “facilities used in local distribution or 
for transmission of electric energy in intrastate commerce, or over facilities for the transmission 
of electric energy consumed wholly by the transmitter.”18 State authority over resource planning, 
utilities’ long-term demand forecasts, and evaluation of supply- and demand-side resources to 
meet that demand also flows from the powers the FPA reserves to the states.19 Proper FERC 
regulation may have some effect on retail sales without violating the FPA.20 But FERC may not 
directly regulate matters reserved to the states; nor may FERC’s regulation improperly “aim at” 
 
13 F.E.R.C. v. Electric Power Supply Ass’n, 577 U.S. 260, 264 (2016) (EPSA). 
14 Id. at 265-66. 
15 Id. at 266. 
16 Id. at 278 (emphasis original). 
17 Id. at 266 (emphasis added). 
18 16 U.S.C. § 824(b). 
19 Resolution Urging the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to Preserve and Affirm State Retail Regulatory 
Jurisdiction in its Large Load Interconnection Proceedings, National Association of Regulatory Utility 
Commissioners Resolution EL-1 (Nov. 11, 2025), pg. 6, citing FPA Section 201(b). 
20 EPSA, 577 U.S. at 281. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
 
matters within state jurisdiction.21 The FPA’s jurisdictional divide was drawn “with meticulous 
regard” for state power, “not to handicap or dilute it in any way.”22 
 
While the FPA marks a “bright line” between state and federal jurisdiction, the U.S. 
Supreme Court has observed that these spheres are not “hermetically sealed.”23 FERC has 
recognized that important questions about how to regulate the modern electric system emerge at 
the “confluence of State and Federal jurisdiction,”24 and the agency itself has found it difficult to 
apply the statutory text to the complicated facts of the electricity industry.25 Nevertheless, the 
Supreme Court has continued to apply the FPA’s bright line to these new issues.26 Courts will 
not defer to FERC’s legal interpretations.27 FERC must point to “clear congressional 
authorization” for the power it claims to exercise.28 
 
The Secretary has asked FERC to assert jurisdiction over the interconnection of large 
loads to the transmission system, where it has not done so historically.29 These interconnections 
implicate both FERC’s jurisdiction over interstate transmission and state authority over matters 
such as the terms and conditions of retail sales of electricity and the physical construction and 
siting of electric generating facilities. Therefore the ANOPR raises more vexing questions at the 
jurisdictional confluence that FERC must clearly resolve. The dissent by Justice Thomas cited in 
the ANOPR30 criticizes FERC for failing to explain its decision-making, but the dissent itself 
 
21 Long Live the Federal Power Act’s Bright Line, 134 Harvard L. Rev. 1360, 1407-08 (2021), citing EPSA and 
Oneok, Inc. v. Learjet, Inc., 575 U.S. 373, 385 (2015). 
22 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. et al., 190 FERC ¶ 61,115 (2025), P. 67, citing Oneok, Inc. 
23 EPSA, 577 U.S. at 281. 
24 134 Harvard L. Rev. at 1367. 
25 New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1, 28-42 (2002), describing FERC’s uncertain analysis of its authority over the 
transmission component of bundled retail sales. 
26 134 Harvard L. Rev. at 1367. 
27 Loper Bright Enterprises v. Raimondo, 603 U.S. 369, 413 (2024). 
28 West Virginia v. Environmental Protection Agency, 597 U.S. 697, 723 (2022). 
29 FERC Docket No. RM26-4, Secretary of Energy Letter re the Interconnection of Large Loads (October 27, 2025). 
30 ANOPR P. 5, citing New York, 535 U.S. at 30-42. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 
 
does not chart a clear path between FERC’s power to regulate interstate transmission and states’ 
exclusive authority.31 FERC’s final rule, in contrast, should clearly demonstrate how it avoids 
crossing the FPA’s bright line. 
 
2. 
FERC must explain the legal and evidentiary bases for its final rule and a rational 
 
explanation of its decisions. 
 
 
The ANOPR proposes four legal justifications for FERC’s jurisdiction over large load 
interconnections. Each theory raises questions that FERC will need to address. In addition to an 
explanation of its statutory authority, FERC must cite substantial evidence to support any 
proposed rule.32 Courts will examine the whole record to evaluate whether FERC addressed the 
relevant considerations and articulated a satisfactory explanation for its action, “including a 
rational connection between the facts found and the choice made.”33 FERC should avoid 
needless legal infirmities that will only delay reform. 
 
First, the ANOPR analogizes large load interconnection to FERC rules on open-access 
transmission service and generation interconnection.34 But the ANOPR does not explain the 
comparison. FERC crafted its orders on open-access transmission service and generator 
interconnection to address undue discrimination by incumbent utilities against competing 
generation. FERC developed evidentiary records and found this discrimination undermined the 
wholesale energy markets that FERC relied upon to ensure just and reasonable rates. The 
 
31 New York, 535 U.S. at 42. “I would not, as petitioner Enron requests, compel FERC to apply the OATT to 
bundled retail transactions. I would… require FERC on remand to engage in reasoned decisionmaking to determine 
whether there is undue discrimination with respect to transmission associated with retail bundled sales, and if so, 
what remedy is appropriate.” 
32 New Jersey Bd. Of Public Utilities v. FERC, 744 F.3d 74, 94 (3rd Cir. 2014). To assist FERC in compiling a record 
in this matter, the Missouri PSC recommends FERC consolidate the record compiled in FERC Docket Nos. EL25-
49, AD24-11, and EL25-20. 
33 Long Island Power Auth. v. FERC, 27 F.4th 705, 712 (D.C. Cir. 2022). 
34 ANOPR PPs 3-11. 

--- PAGE 9 ---
9 
 
ANOPR does not explain whether, or how, current state and RTO interconnection practices are 
discriminatory or unjust or unreasonable. Unlike generation, load represents an opportunity for a 
utility to increase revenue, not competition.  
 
Next, the ANOPR asserts that interconnection of large loads to the transmission system 
fall under a practice directly affecting Commission-jurisdictional wholesale electricity rates.35 
Again, however, the ANOPR does not elaborate on how or under what circumstances large load 
interconnections directly affect wholesale rates, or how existing procedures are producing rates 
that are unjust or unreasonable. FERC’s jurisdiction here is limited to “‘rules or practices that 
directly affect the wholesale rate’” so that FERC’s jurisdiction does not “assume near-infinite 
breadth.”36 Again, FERC’s final rule must make clear, rational connections between its legal 
authority, record evidence, and its regulatory decisions. 
 
3. 
FERC should not impinge on State authority. 
 
 
As a third justification, the ANOPR claims it does not impinge on state retail authority.37 
Under the FPA, it cannot do so. FERC recently addressed its jurisdiction relevant to large loads 
and co-location arrangements. It should keep those principles in mind as it develops a final rule. 
 
In PJM Interconnection L.L.C. et al., FERC clarified its jurisdiction over general matters 
concerning large load co-location arrangements.38 It explained that states retain exclusive 
jurisdiction over retail sales, including the rate designs that determine how the costs of wholesale 
sales and transmission assigned to a wholesale customer are allocated among that wholesale 
customers’ retail customers. States retain authority to regulate which entities may make retail 
 
35 ANOPR P 14. 
36 EPSA, 577 U.S. at 278 (emphasis original). 
37 ANOPR P 15. 
38 190 FERC at PP 66-72. 

--- PAGE 10 ---
10 
 
sales, along with the rates, terms and conditions of those sales. These principles are true 
regardless of where the load connects (i.e., to the distribution system, transmission system, or the 
generator itself). States also have authority to decide which generating resources are sited and 
allowed to operate to serve co-located load.39 
 
Just last month, FERC affirmed these principles in rejecting a proposed tariff.40 A 
wholesale generation and transmission cooperative (Tri-State), proposed a large load tariff and 
pro forma load agreement. FERC found that certain aspects of Tri-State’s proposal appeared to 
“present an impermissible intrusion on retail rate regulation and thus are not subject to the 
Commission’s authority pursuant to Section 205 of the FPA.”41 Several provisions of the tariff 
specified the terms and conditions of service by a utility member of the cooperative to an end-use 
large load customer (i.e., retail service). For example, Tri-State’s tariff purported to dictate the 
amount of energy that a large load customer must purchase at retail. FERC said that “‘no matter 
how direct, or dramatic’ a proposal’s impact on wholesale rates, the Commission still may not 
regulate retail electricity sales.”42 FERC should continue to respect the FPA’s jurisdictional 
divide in its final rule. 
 
The Missouri PSC agrees with FERC’s determination in PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. 
that resolution of large load interconnection issues will “require the involvement of both federal 
and state actors,” and that the application of jurisdictional principles “will often depend heavily 
on the specific facts and circumstances presented in particular situations.”43 A final rule should 
 
39 Id. at PP. 68-70. 
40 Tri-State Generation and Transmission Association, Inc., FERC Docket No. ER25-3316. Order Rejecting 
Proposed Tariff, 193 FERC ¶ 61,070 (Oct. 2025). 
41 Id. at P. 45. 
42 Id. at P. 47. 
43 PJM Interconnection L.L.C., PP. 66, 68. 

--- PAGE 11 ---
11 
 
provide the flexibility necessary to address the novel and rapidly evolving large load 
arrangements. 
 
The Missouri PSC also agrees with the National Association of Regulatory Utility 
Commissioners (NARUC) that interconnecting large loads with insufficient generation capacity 
could threaten power service to existing retail customers.44 The costs of large load 
interconnections, including infrastructure investments, could unfairly burden retail ratepayers if 
not properly allocated. States have the expertise and legal authority to balance large load 
development with customer protections, as demonstrated in Missouri’s large load tariff 
proceedings. FERC’s final rule should not undermine states’ balancing efforts, disrupt orderly 
grid planning, or inadvertently lead to resource adequacy or affordability challenges.45 
 
The bright line drawn by the FPA between state and federal jurisdiction is particularly 
important for states like Missouri that have retained their vertically integrated structure. Public 
utilities in Missouri provide bundled electric service that includes generation, transmission and 
distribution. Missouri law provides that no electrical corporation may construct an electric plant 
with a capacity greater than one megawatt, or provide any service to retail customers, without 
first having obtained the permission and approval of the Missouri PSC.46 The Missouri PSC 
regulates how utilities under its jurisdiction design resource plans to serve their customers under 
Missouri’s Integrated Resource Plan (IRP) process.47 
 
FERC must narrowly tailor its final rule so as not to conflict with the vertically integrated 
structure maintained in Missouri and other states. A final rule cannot commandeer state authority 
over resource planning or the construction and siting of large loads and generation. FERC cannot 
 
44 NARUC Resolution EL-1, pg. 7. 
45 Id. 
46 Section 393.170, RSMo (2016, Supp. 2018). 
47 Section 393.1900 (Supp. 2025). 

--- PAGE 12 ---
12 
 
override states’ own regulatory and economic development choices, or force state utility 
ratepayers to construct generation that is not planned for and approved under state IRP and 
certificate proceedings. As Missouri and other state commissions confront issues of affordability 
in both wholesale and retail electricity rates, FERC must ensure that costs under its jurisdiction 
are allocated in a just and reasonable manner, and that other customers do not unjustly subsidize 
the energy needs of large load customers. 
 
4. 
A cooperative approach to load interconnection supports the FPA’s core purpose. 
 
As a fourth justification, the ANOPR asserts that any contrary view necessarily conflicts 
with the FPA’s core purpose.48 The ANOPR cites FERC’s exclusive jurisdiction over interstate 
transmission services. But the preservation of state authority—and state and federal 
cooperation—are also core purposes of the FPA. 
 
For example, the U.S. Supreme Court described FERC’s approach to demand response, 
where wholesale and retail jurisdictions converge, to be a program of “cooperative federalism.”49 
The Court said FERC’s solicitude to state jurisdiction “remove[d] any conceivable doubt as to its 
compliance with Section 824(b)’s allocation of federal and state authority.”50 In its orders on the 
participation of battery storage and distributed energy resources in wholesale markets, FERC 
was careful to note that nothing in the regulations altered states’ authority, “provided they do not 
aim directly at the RTO/ISO markets.”51 Even more recently, FERC modified its landmark 
 
48 ANOPR P. 15. 
49 EPSA, 577 U.S. at 288. 
50 Id. 
51 NARUC v. FERC, 964 F.3d 1177, 1184 (D.C. Cir. 2020); See also Participation of Distributed Energy Resource 
Aggregations in Markets Operated by Regional Transmission Organizations and Independent System Operators, 
172 FERC ¶ 61,247 (2020) P. 61:  “As in Order No. 841, the reforms adopted in this final rule do not preclude or 
limit state or local regulation of: retail rates; distribution system planning, distribution system operations, or 
distribution system reliability; distributed energy resource facility siting; and interconnection of resources to the 
distribution system that are not subject to Commission jurisdiction.” 

--- PAGE 13 ---
13 
 
transmission planning Order No. 1920 to better accommodate state authority over the allocation 
of transmission costs, noting that deference to state jurisdiction where it is due can help 
accelerate the development transmission infrastructure.52 State and federal cooperation will 
similarly meet the Secretary’s goal of expediting large load interconnection while protecting 
other customers. 
 
The Secretary’s abbreviated deadline of April 2026 for a final rule, combined with the 
novel legal and policy issues and rapidly evolving technology involved in large load 
interconnections, should warrant a cautious approach. FERC should consider adopting broad 
principles that allow for innovation and regional flexibility, rather than narrow prescriptions. 
FERC should avoid boxing in participants with overly restrictive rules that cannot adapt to new 
technologies. 
 
C.  Missouri PSC comments on the ANOPR’s Principles for Reform 
 
The Missouri PSC appreciates the ANOPR’s directive that FERC jurisdiction should be 
limited to interconnections directly to the transmission system. FERC should use the seven-
factor test to distinguish between transmission and distribution facilities.53 The proposed 20 MW 
threshold54 could be too low, potentially clogging the process with small entities, discouraging 
industrial expansion, and interfering with state retail tariffs. Load is not the same as generation, 
and any threshold should be based on evidence of different load profiles that would be subject to 
the rule. 
 
52 Building for the Future Through Electric Regional Transmission Planning and Cost Allocation, 189 FERC ¶ 
61,126 (2024), PP. 14, 659. 
53 ANOPR P. 18, citing Cal. Pac. Elec. Co., 133 FERC ¶ 61,018 (2010) at P. 45. 
54 ANOPR P. 19. 

--- PAGE 14 ---
14 
 
 
The Missouri PSC supports efficient and comprehensive study procedures of hybrid 
facilities,55 but emphasizes that hybrid facility arrangements must be structured to prevent harm 
to the local utility and other customers. Other customers should not bear the costs of co-located 
generation that becomes unnecessary if, for example, data centers become more efficient over 
time. The final rule should adopt strong requirements to deter speculative projects, fairly allocate 
costs and enhance transparency.56 The Missouri PSC agrees that an existing generating facility 
that seeks to enter a partial suspension to serve a new load at the same location should go 
through an SSR/RMR type study.57 Finally, a plan to implement the final rule must respect work 
already being done through other RTOs and state commissions. 
 
V. Conclusion 
 
The Missouri PSC agrees with the Secretary that the interconnection of large loads 
presents one of the most significant challenges to the electric system in recent history. This issue 
is both national in scope, and also deeply local. An effective and expeditious response must 
correspond to the jurisdictional framework of the Federal Power Act and conform to traditional 
state and federal roles in utility regulation. In developing its final rule, FERC should look to the 
states as partners, not obstacles. The Missouri PSC respectfully submits these initial comments. 
 
 
 
 
 
55 Id. P. 20, 22. 
56 Id. P. 21. 
57 Id. P. 27. 

--- PAGE 15 ---
15 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
/s/ John D. Borgmeyer 
John D. Borgmeyer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Asst. General Counsel-Regulation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Service Commission of the  
State of Missouri 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P.O. Box 360 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Jefferson City, MO  65102-0360 
573-751-7504 (telephone) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
573-522-4016 (facsimile)  
John.borgmeyer@psc.mo.gov 
 
 
Certificate of Service 
Pursuant to Rule 2010 of the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure, I hereby 
certify that I have this day served a copy of the foregoing document on all persons designated on 
the official service list compiled by the Secretary of the Commission in this proceeding by 
electronic service dated on this 21st day of November, 2025. 
/s/ John D. Borgmeyer 
 
 
 
 
