--- PAGE 1 ---
1 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System 
 
 
) 
) 
) 
 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
COMMENTS OF THE UNDERSIGNED ATTORNEYS GENERAL  
AND STATE CONSUMER ADVOCATES 
 
On October 23, 2025, pursuant to section 403 of the Department of Energy Organization 
Act,1 the Secretary of Energy (“Secretary”) issued a proposed Advance Notice of Proposed 
Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) for consideration by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
(“FERC” or “Commission”) regarding interconnection of large loads to the transmission system. 
Pursuant to the Commission’s Notice Inviting Comments issued October 27, 2025, and the 
Commission’s November 7, 2025, Notice Granting Extension of Time, the Massachusetts Attorney 
General’s Office (“Massachusetts AGO”),2 the Arizona Attorney General’s Office (“Arizona 
AGO”),3 the Colorado Attorney General’s Office (“Colorado AGO”),4 the Connecticut Office of 
 
1  
42 U.S.C. § 7173. 
2  
The Massachusetts Attorney General is the chief legal officer of the Commonwealth of 
Massachusetts as well as the ratepayer advocate.  She is authorized expressly by statute to intervene 
on behalf of public utility ratepayers in proceedings before the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission.  See Mass. Gen. Laws ch. 12, § 11E.  The Massachusetts AGO intervened in this 
docket on November 4, 2025. 
3  
The Arizona AGO represents and defends the legal interests of the people of the State of 
Arizona. 
4  
The Colorado AGO represents and defends the legal interests of the people of the State of 
Colorado. 

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
 
Consumer Counsel (“CT OCC”),5 the Maryland Office of People’s Counsel (“MPC”),6 the 
Minnesota Attorney General’s Office (“Minnesota AGO”),7 the Office of the Nevada Attorney 
General, Bureau of Consumer Protection (“Nevada BCP”),8 the New Hampshire Office of the 
Consumer Advocate (“NH OCA”),9 the Oregon Attorney General (“Oregon AG”),10 and the Rhode 
Island Division of Public Utilities and Carriers (“Rhode Island DPUC”)11 (collectively, the “State 
Entities”) submit the following comments. 
The State Entities recognize the circumstances underlying the Secretary’s request that 
FERC develop rules and processes to facilitate “timely and orderly interconnections of large loads 
 
5  
The Connecticut OCC is an independent state agency of the State of Connecticut that serves 
as the designated advocate for all ratepayers and consumers of electric, natural gas, water, and 
telecommunications utility services.  See Conn. Gen. Stat. 16-2a(a).  The CT OCC intervened in 
this docket on November 20, 2025. 
6  
MPC is charged by Maryland statute with protecting the interests of Maryland’s residential 
consumers of electricity before state and federal agencies.  Maryland Public Utilities Article, §2-
205(b).  MPC intervened in this docket on November 11, 2025. 
7  
The Minnesota AGO is the chief legal officer of the State of Minnesota as well as a 
ratepayer advocate.  He is explicitly authorized by statute to intervene to further the interests of 
residential and small business ratepayers at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.  Minn. 
Stat. § 8.33, subd. 6.  The Minnesota AGO moved to intervene in this docket on November 20, 
2025. 
8  
The Nevada BCP is a statutorily created division within the Office of the Nevada Attorney 
General, pursuant to NEV. REV.STAT. § 228.310 and represents the interests of Nevada utility 
consumers before FERC and at the state level pursuant to NEV. REV. STAT. § 228.360. 
9  
The NH OCA is designated as the official representative of New Hampshire’s residential 
utility customers and is authorized by New Hampshire law, N.H. R.S.A. 363:28, to appear in any 
proceeding concerning utility rates, charges, tariffs, and consumer services before any 
commission, agency, or regulatory body in which the interests of New Hampshire’s residential 
utility consumers are involved.  The NH OCA intervened in this docket on November 7, 2025. 
10  
The Oregon AG is the chief legal officer of the State of Oregon.  He is authorized to 
represent the state in any matter in which the state is interested.  Or. Rev. Stat. § 180.060. 
11  
The Rhode Island DPUC is the agency statutorily charged with representing ratepayers 
before federal agencies, see RI. Gen. Laws § 39-1-29, as well as advocating on behalf of consumers 
before the Public Utilities Commission.  See R.I. Gen. Laws § 39-1-1(c). 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
 
to the transmission system.”12  In the context of current and anticipated substantial demand growth 
in the near future, the State Entities appreciate the Commission’s attention to addressing these 
particular types of large loads proactively and in a manner that mitigates and avoids unnecessary 
system disruption and potential ratepayer harm.  Indeed, the State Entities agree that standardizing 
large load interconnection rules may allow for more predictable and efficient interconnection, 
which would benefit both ratepayers and the transmission system as a whole.  
While recognizing that these large load interconnections warrant the Commission’s prompt 
attention, the State Entities are wary of the Secretary’s requested April 30, 2026, deadline for final 
Commission action.13  Depending in part on the ultimate scope of the Commission’s rulemaking, 
establishing unprecedented federal jurisdiction and new large load interconnection rules is likely 
to have sweeping impacts on the nation’s ratepayers and electric grids.  Rushing this rulemaking 
process could substantially curtail meaningful public participation opportunities14 and detract from 
the legal durability of any final rules established as a result of this rulemaking process.  With 
respect to process, the State Entities encourage the Commission to provide reasonable time periods 
for stakeholders to provide comment and otherwise participate in this proceeding.15 
 
12  
ANOPR, at P 1. 
13  
The Secretary does not articulate or attribute any significance to this particular date in his 
letter request or proposed ANOPR. 
14  
Section 403 itself—pursuant to which the Secretary issued this proposed ANOPR—
requires “full consideration of the issues and an opportunity for interested persons to present their 
views.”  42 U.S.C. § 7173(c). 
15  
5 U.S.C. § 553(c); see Consumer Energy Council of Am. v. FERC, 673 F.2d 425, 445–46 
(D.C. Cir. 1982) (FERC must provide meaningful opportunity to comment on rulemaking 
proposals); Mobil Expl. & Producing N. Am., Inc. v. FERC, 881 F.2d 193, 199 (5th Cir. 1989) (due 
process requires comment opportunity when FERC exercises its statutory rulemaking authority); 
see also NRG Power Mktg., LLC v. FERC, 862 F.3d 108, 116 (D.C. Cir. 2017) (when FERC 
significantly modifies a utility’s section 205 filing, FERC must provide an opportunity for 
meaningful comment on such modifications). 

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
 
On substance, the State Entities provide the following comments on two topics relevant to 
the Commission’s large load interconnection rulemaking: (1) jurisdiction, and (2) ratepayer 
protections. First, in developing proposed rules, the Commission must establish clear jurisdictional 
boundaries that appropriately respect state jurisdictional authority over the distribution system and 
retail ratemaking.  Any infringement on this authority could threaten state regulatory commissions’ 
ability to use their expertise and authority to protect the reliability and affordability of retail electric 
service in their respective territories. The Commission must also prioritize ratepayer protections 
in this rulemaking. In particular, the State Entities support efforts by the Commission to incentivize 
curtailability, load flexibility, and other demand response mechanisms to encourage large load 
customers to avoid substantial and costly impacts to regional peak loads. Ratepayers across the 
country are suffering from ever-increasing energy cost burdens, and the Commission must ensure 
that this rulemaking serves to lessen those burdens, not exacerbate them.  
I. 
JURISDICTION 
The Secretary has stated an intention to “avoid even arguably affecting the States’ 
jurisdiction” over the distribution system by limiting this rulemaking to “interconnections directly 
to transmission facilities.”16 Nonetheless, as the Secretary acknowledges, “[h]istorically, the 
Commission has not exerted jurisdiction over load interconnections.”17 While the Secretary has 
proposed a basis for asserting jurisdiction here, including by citation to the Federal Power Act,18 
there does not appear to be legal precedent directly granting this jurisdiction, even when limited 
 
16  
Id. at P 18 (emphasis in original).  
17  
FERC Docket No. RM26-4-000, Secretary’s Letter to FERC (Nov. 3, 2025). 
18  
ANOPR, at P 2 (citing 16 U.S.C. § 824(b) (“The Commission shall have jurisdiction over 
all facilities for such transmission or sale of electric energy.”)). 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
 
to transmission interconnections.19 
To resolve this jurisdictional question, the Commission must address two interrelated 
issues: (1) whether and how the Commission has jurisdiction over these “interconnections directly 
to transmission facilities” and, if so, (2) how to define “transmission facilities” to avoid infringing 
on state authority over the distribution system. 
On the first issue, the State Entities urge the Commission to use this rulemaking to provide 
clarity regarding the basis upon which it asserts authority over such interconnections, should it 
determine to do so. 
Assuming the Commission can in fact exercise jurisdiction over these interconnections, the 
State Entities emphasize that the Commission’s rulemaking must be carefully designed and 
narrowly tailored to avoid an expansion of this jurisdiction over end-use customer loads 
interconnecting to the local electric distribution system.  As the ANOPR recognizes, such 
interconnections fall squarely within the exclusive jurisdiction of state retail energy regulatory 
authorities under the Federal Power Act.20  These state commissions have the authority, experience, 
and regional expertise to regulate large load interconnections to their respective distribution 
systems to ensure the interconnections do not compromise the reliability and affordability of retail 
electric service.  The Commission must avoid even inadvertently infringing on this foundational, 
well-established authority. 
At a minimum, to prevent any such potential infringement on state jurisdictional authority 
over end-use retail energy, the Commission should clearly define the scope of this rulemaking.  
 
19  
See, e.g., Tri-State Generation and Transmission Association, Inc., 193 FERC ¶ 61,070, at 
P 50 (2025). 
20  
16 U.S.C. § 824(b); see New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1, 22–23 (2002); see also Tri-State 
Generation, 193 FERC ¶ 61,070. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
 
The ANOPR attempts to establish this jurisdictional boundary by limiting the rulemaking to 
“interconnections directly to transmission facilities.”21  The ANOPR, however, does not specify 
how “transmission facilities” will be defined, beyond stating that the definition will “be consistent 
with the Commission’s seven-factor test” from Order No. 888.22  While citation to the seven-factor 
test is an appropriate starting point, the State Entities encourage the Commission to use this 
rulemaking to prescribe clear, defined jurisdictional limits based on this test and the Federal Power 
Act.  The Commission should also clarify in a proposed rulemaking how, and by whom, these 
jurisdictional determinations will be made.  Beyond protecting state jurisdiction and maintaining 
regulatory certainty, establishing a clear jurisdictional standard and process will be critical in 
allowing for more predictable and efficient interconnection to the transmission system. 
In developing the scope of its rulemaking, the Commission should also ensure that any 
final rule does not preclude states and regional transmission organizations (“RTO”) from 
instituting their own specific, tailored rules regarding large load interconnections within their 
territories.  While the State Entities support the development of baseline federal standards 
grounded in statutory authority, different regions across the country should be allowed to build 
upon federal standards to create rules that address unique regional challenges and opportunities.  
 
21  
ANOPR, at P 18. 
22  
Id. (citing Cal. Pac. Elec. Co., 133 FERC ¶ 61,018, at P 45 (2010)); see also Promoting 
Wholesale Competition Through Open Access Non-Discriminatory Transmission Services by 
Public Utilities; Recovery of Stranded Costs by Public Utilities and Transmitting Utilities, Order 
No. 888, 61 Fed. Reg. 21,590 (1996).  The seven factors are: (1) local distribution facilities are 
normally in close proximity to retail customers; (2) local distribution facilities are primarily radial 
in character; (3) power flows into local distribution systems; it rarely, if ever, flows out; (4) when 
power enters a local distribution system, it is not reconsigned or transported on to some other 
market; (5) power entering a local distribution system is consumed in a comparatively restricted 
geographical area; (6) meters are based at the transmission/local distribution interface to measure 
flows into the local distribution system; and (7) local distribution systems will be of reduced 
voltage.  Order No. 888, 61 Fed. Reg., at 21,620. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
 
Indeed, many state jurisdictions and certain RTOs have already started creating such large load 
interconnection rules and tariffs;23 any Commission rulemaking here should not impede that 
progress or prevent other regions from making similar progress.   
II. 
RATEPAYER PROTECTIONS 
In addition to establishing clear jurisdictional standards that respect state authority, the 
State Entities urge the Commission to meaningfully prioritize ratepayer protections during this 
rulemaking process. To that end, the State Entities are encouraged by the ANOPR’s inclusion of 
ratepayer protection principles, including that “[l]oad and hybrid facilities should be responsible 
for 100% of the network upgrades they are assigned,”24 and a directive that study processes should 
“allow for efficient siting of loads and generating facilities and thereby minimize the need for 
costly network upgrades.”25 If adopted and prioritized, adherence to these principles could mitigate 
the possibility that large load interconnection costs will be passed onto ratepayers.  
The State Entities stress that this rulemaking must include provisions that mitigate the risk 
of ratepayer subsidization of large load interconnection, including by ensuring that the above cost 
assignment principle includes a robust assessment that assigns all costs caused by large loads (both 
direct and indirect) to those same large load customers.  The Commission’s rulemaking should also 
include protections that shield ratepayers from cost risk associated with large load customers that 
 
23  
See, e.g., FERC Docket No. ER26-247(Southwest Power Pool High Impact Large Load 
proposal); NARUC, Resolution Urging the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to Preserve 
and Affirm State Retail Regulatory Jurisdiction in its Large Load Interconnection Proceeding, at 
2 (noting that “at least 20 states have approved or have pending large load tariffs or similar 
measures, which may include financial commitments, curtailment protocols, and minimum 
contract terms to allow for the rapid interconnection of large loads without compromising grid 
reliability or unduly burdening existing retail customers”) (Nov. 11, 2025). 
24  
ANOPR, at P 25. 
25  
Id. at P 20. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 
 
fail to materialize, abandon interconnecting projects, or prematurely exit the transmission system.  
Without strong protections in place, large load interconnections have the potential to claim existing 
capacity already paid for by ratepayers and further burden ratepayers with the costs of new and/or 
unnecessary transmission infrastructure upgrades.  The Commission should use this rulemaking as 
an opportunity to protect ratepayers from new cost burdens at a time when ratepayers can least 
afford it. 
In particular, the State Entities support efforts by the Commission to protect ratepayers by 
allowing and/or incentivizing large load customers to participate in curtailment, load flexibility, 
and other demand response mechanisms.26  These mechanisms allow large interconnecting loads 
to shift their withdrawals away from peak demand hours that cause the most strain on the grid.27  
By taking advantage of load flexibility, large load customers can minimize the need for costly 
transmission infrastructure upgrades (which are sized to serve peak demand)28 and reduce their 
impact on energy supply constraints during peak demand hours. These provisions would reduce 
the cost and reliability impact of large loads connecting directly to the transmission system, and 
can serve as key protections for ratepayers in the wake of current and anticipated future load 
 
26  
Id. at P 24. 
27  
See, e.g., Walsh, S., M. Farmer, A. Zevin, K. Smaczniak, G. Daly, N. Lobel, A. Clements, 
Y. Guo, and T. Profeta, How DOE’s Proposed Large Load Interconnection Process Could Unlock 
the Benefits of Load Flexibility. NI PB 25-03. Durham, NC: Nicholas Institute for Energy, 
Environment 
& 
Sustainability, 
Duke 
University 
(2025), 
available 
at 
https://nicholasinstitute.duke.edu/publications/how-doesproposed-large-load-interconnection-
process-could-unlock-benefits.   
28  
ISO-NE, 2050 Transmission Study, at 16 (Feb. 12, 2024), available at https://www.iso-
ne.com/static-assets/documents/100008/2024_02_14_pac_2050_transmission_study_final.pdf 
(“Increases in load become significantly more expensive (with regard to transmission costs) as 
peak load levels increase.  This is especially true at levels above ~51 GW of load.  Increases in 
load at peak load levels below 51 GW do increase costs (roughly $0.75 billion per GW of load 
added from 28 GW to 51 GW), but these increases are small when compared to the increase in 
costs above 51 GW of load (roughly $1.5 billion per GW of load added from 51 GW to 57 GW).”). 

--- PAGE 9 ---
9 
 
growth.  The State Entities therefore encourage the Commission to pursue and prioritize the 
ANOPR principle that seeks to incentivize large loads “to be curtailable and dispatchable” by a 
“system operator.”29 Indeed, the Commission should consider expanding the scope of this 
rulemaking to consider additional load flexibility mechanisms which can similarly alleviate the 
peak demand burden on ratepayers. 
III. 
CONCLUSION 
The State Entities appreciate the Commission’s attention to this matter and its solicitation 
of public input on the development of rules and processes to facilitate interconnections of large 
loads to the transmission system.  
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
ANDREA JOY CAMPBELL 
MASSACHUSETTS ATTORNEY 
GENERAL 
 
/s/ Christopher Modlish 
  
Jacquelyn K. Bihrle  
Christopher Modlish 
Assistant Attorneys General  
Massachusetts Attorney General Office of 
Ratepayer Advocacy  
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, MA 02108 
Phone: 617-963-2954 
Jacquelyn.Bihrle@mass.gov 
Chris.Modlish@mass.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29  
ANOPR, at P 24.  

--- PAGE 10 ---
10 
 
FOR THE STATE OF ARIZONA 
KRIS MAYES 
Attorney General 
/s/ Kirsten Engel______ 
Kirsten Engel 
Special Attorney General 
Environmental Protection Unit 
2005 N. Central Ave 
Phoenix, AZ 85085 
(520) 209-4020 
Kirsten.Engel@azag.gov  
 
 
PHILIP J. WEISER  
COLORADO ATTORNEY GENERAL 
 
/s/ Jessica Lowrey 
 
Jessica Lowrey 
First Assistant Attorney General 
Office of the Attorney General  
1300 Broadway, 10th Floor 
Denver, Colorado 80203 
(720) 508-6167 
jessica.lowrey@coag.gov      
 
 
CLAIRE E. COLEMAN 
CONNECTICUT CONSUMER 
COUNSEL 
 
/s/ James M. Talbert-Slagle  
James M. Talbert-Slagle 
Staff Attorney 
Office of Consumer Counsel 
10 Franklin Square 
New Britain, CT 06051-2655 
Phone: (860) 827-2918 
Email: james.talbert-slagle@ct.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 11 ---
11 
 
MARYLAND OFFICE OF PEOPLES’ 
COUNSEL 
DAVID S. LAPP  
PEOPLE’S COUNSEL  
 
/s/ Willam F. Fields 
 
William F. Fields  
Deputy People’s Counsel  
Philip L. Sussler 
Senior Assistant People’s Counsel  
Maryland Office of People’s Counsel  
6 St. Paul Street, Suite 2102  
Baltimore, MD 21202  
(410) 767-8171  
William.Fields@maryland.gov 
Philip Sussler@maryland.gov 
 
 
KEITH ELLISON 
MINNESOTA ATTORNEY GENERAL 
 
/s/ Katherine Hinderlie 
 
Katherine Hinderlie 
Assistant Attorney General 
Cat Rios-Keating 
Special Assistant Attorney General 
Minnesota Office of the Attorney General 
445 Minnesota Street, Suite 600 
St. Paul, Minnesota 55101-2125 
(651) 757-1468 (Voice) 
katherine.hinderlie@ag.state.mn.us 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 12 ---
12 
 
STATE OF NEVADA  
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY 
GENERAL 
BUREAU OF CONSUMER 
PROTECTION 
ERNEST FIGUEROA 
CONSUMER ADVOCATE 
 
/s/ Michelle C. Badorine  
 
 
 
Michelle C. Badorine 
Senior Deputy Attorney General 
Bureau of Consumer Protection 
100 North Carson Street 
Carson City, Nevada 89701-4717 
T: (775) 684-1164 
MBadorine@ag.nv.gov 
 
 
NEW HAMPSHIRE OFFICE OF THE 
CONSUMER ADVOCATE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/ Matthew J. Fossum 
Matthew J. Fossum 
Assistant Consumer Advocate and Director 
of Regional & Federal Affairs 
21 S. Fruit St., Suite 18 
Concord, NH 03301 
Phone: (603) 271-0384 
Email: Matthew.J.Fossum@oca.nh.gov 
 
 
THE STATE OF OREGON  
DAN RAYFIELD 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
 
/s/ Paul Garrahan 
Paul Garrahan  
Attorney-in-Charge, Natural Resources 
Section 
Oregon Department of Justice  
1162 Court Street NE  
Salem, Oregon 97301-4096  
(503) 947-4540  
Paul.Garrahan@doj.oregon.gov 
 

--- PAGE 13 ---
13 
 
RHODE ISLAND DIVISION OF 
PUBLIC UTILITIES AND CARRIERS 
 
/s/ Christy L. Hetherington  
Christy L. Hetherington, Esq. 
Deputy Administrator 
Rhode Island Division of Public  
Utilities and Carriers 
89 Jefferson Boulevard 
Warwick, RI 02888 
Phone: (401) 941-4500 
Email: christy.hetherington@dpuc.ri.gov  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 14 ---
14 
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
 
In accordance with 18 C.F.R. § 385.2010, I hereby certify that I have this day served the 
foregoing document upon each person designated on the official service list compiled by the 
Secretary in this proceeding.   
Dated at Boston, Massachusetts this 21st day of November, 2025. 
 
/s/ Jacquelyn K. Bihrle 
  
Jacquelyn K. Bihrle 
         Assistant Attorney General 
 Massachusetts Attorney General  
 Office of Ratepayer Advocacy 
 One Ashburton Place 
 Boston, MA 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
 
