--- PAGE 1 ---
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the  
 
)            Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Interstate Transmission System 
 
 
)  
 
 
 
 
REPLY COMMENTS OF THE 
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REGULATORY UTILITY COMMISSIONERS 
 
The National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners (“NARUC”), respectfully 
submits these reply comments1 in response to select issues raised in initial comments on the 
Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) issued by the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission (“Commission” or “FERC”) in the above-captioned docket. 2  Given the abbreviated 
schedule for reply, NARUC does not respond to each of the numerous issues raised in the roughly 
175 initial comments filed in this proceeding.  Rather, NARUC limits its reply to: 
(i) 
highlighting the consensus by other commenters that align with NARUC’s position 
regarding jurisdictional concerns; 
(ii) 
proposing a path forward to obtain more clarity of opinions and potentially arrive 
at a legally durable consensus; 
(iii) 
providing recommendations if this proceeding evolves into a Notice of Proposed 
Rulemaking. (“NOPR”). 
 
 
 
1  
NARUC submitted initial comments on November 21, 2025, in this proceeding (“NARUC’s Initial 
Comments”). 
2  
Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, Ensuring the Timely and Orderly Interconnection of 
Large Loads (2025) (“ANOPR”).  
 

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
 
OVERVIEW 
As evidenced by the sheer volume of initial comments submitted, ensuring that large loads 
are interconnected in a timely, nondiscriminatory manner while protecting affordable, reliable, and 
secure electric service to all customers is a shared goal by all in this rulemaking. A review of the 
comments indicates that there are a multitude of ideas on how to meet this challenge. The 
Commission may feel a sense of urgency to issue a NOPR and a Final Rule by April 2026, as 
requested by Secretary Wright. Instead of issuing a rule that attempts to address all issues raised 
in the initial comments, NARUC urges the Commission to move quickly to schedule a technical 
conference.  This technical conference should include state regulators and commenters who have 
suggested alternative paths, including a consensus-based approach that incorporates the concept 
of cooperative federalism. NARUC reiterates that reliability, affordability, and respect for regional 
and state differences and state jurisdiction should be core principles and the basis for further 
Commission action. If the Commission proposes reforms, the reforms should permit flexibility 
and should address the real challenges currently facing the interconnection of large load without 
unnecessarily upsetting the federal-state jurisdictional divide maintained for close to a century.  
1. NARUC Questions FERC’s Jurisdiction over Large Load Interconnections. 
NARUC appreciates FERC’s long history of outreach and cooperation with State 
commissions across a range of issues. However, it seems that many of the commenters agree with 
NARUC that FERC’s proposed ANOPR impermissibly treads into the realm of state jurisdiction, 
or at the very least, raises significant uncertainties that may lead to protracted legal disputes.  
Working together on a consensus-based approach to avoid jurisdictional confusion would more 
expeditiously reach shared goals. In reviewing the comments by NARUC’s membership, every 
single state public utility commission (“PUC”) of the nineteen state PUCs that filed comments 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
 
expressed concern that FERC asserting jurisdiction over load interconnection would or could 
impinge on the states’ exclusive authority over retail rates and services.3 The state PUCs stressed 
that Congress through the Federal Power Act created a bright-line jurisdictional divide between 
FERC and that the Commission must respect and honor that jurisdictional bright-line in any rule 
it issues. 
Many other commenters also expressed concern regarding the legal durability of any type 
of assertion of jurisdiction by FERC over large load interconnections or at the very least cautioned 
against initial overreach.  A few representational examples are: 
a. The United States Congressional Committee, Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources, stated “[t]he Federal Power Act distinguishes between federal and state 
jurisdiction over electricity, and we strongly encourage the Commission to continue to 
honor this distinction when taking any future actions addressing large load 
interconnections.”4 
b. The Large Public Power Council declared “jurisdiction under the FPA for the 
Commission to control the terms of large load interconnection is far from clear. A 
declaration that the Commission has jurisdiction over the transmission component of 
bundled retail sales is a questionable matter, and would have the likely unintended 
 
3  Arkansas Public Service Commission, California Public Utilities Commission, Georgia Public Service 
Commission, Kansas Corporation Commission, Louisiana and Mississippi Public Service Commissions, 
Maryland Public Service Commission, Public Service Commission of the State of Missouri, Nebraska Power 
Review Board, New Mexico Public Regulation Commission, New York State Public Service Commission, 
North Carolina Utilities Commission, North Dakota Public Service Commission, Oklahoma Corporation 
Commission, Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission, Public Utilities Commission of Ohio, South Dakota 
Public Utilities Commission, Virginia State Corporation Commission, Washington Utilities and Transportation 
Commission. 
4 Committee on Energy and Natural Resources letter at 1 (Nov. 18, 2025). 

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
 
consequence of the Commission taking charge of the transmission cost component of 
retail sales rates, meaningfully diminishing state-based authority over retail rates.”5 
c. The National Association of State Utility Consumer Advocates expressed “[t]he 
ANOPR contends that ‘the proposal does not impinge on States’ authority over retail 
electricity sales by asserting jurisdiction over the interconnection of large loads to the 
transmission system.’ Nothing in the ANOPR supports that conclusion.”6  
d. Talen Energy Corporation declared “[t]he ANOPR will lead to unnecessary legal 
disputes and litigation between the Commission and states, which will delay the 
Commission’s ability to provide regulatory certainty about these important issues and 
hinder timely development of new generation . . . [Thus,] [t]he ANOPR process is not 
the right forum to move in an expedited manner.”7 
e. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. asserted “the Commission [should] focus on developing large 
load interconnection standards that do not stretch jurisdictional boundaries. As a 
practical matter, it would maximize near-term benefits to avoid jurisdictional disputes 
that would threaten to delay the implementation, and the legal durability, of the 
Commission’s directives in this proceeding.”8 
f.  “[Edison Electric Institute] describes some of the jurisdictional concerns implicated 
by the ANOPR below with the aim of aiding the Commission in adopting a durable 
Final Rule that avoids unnecessary cost and delay.” [Further,] “the Commission can 
advance meaningful reforms without wading into the most sensitive jurisdictional 
 
5  Large Public Power Council at 2. 
6  National Association of State Consumer Advocates at 7. 
7  Talen Energy Corp. at 5. 
8  Chevron USA, Inc. at 7-8. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
 
issues. Recent action from the ISO/RTOs, states, and individual utilities illustrates there 
can be a clear and quick path for the Commission to have an impact.”9  
g. Meta Platforms, Inc. expressed “[t]he Commission, however, should not rush to impose 
a one-size-fits-all regulatory solution nationwide. Some regions of the country are just 
beginning to bring data centers online, while others have already interconnected 
substantial large data center loads and are working quickly to add more. Keeping this 
momentum going is imperative. Issuing a detailed, standard rule that fails to account 
for the diversity in the economic landscape could slow down successful interconnection 
processes and undermine the Commission’s goal of bringing more data centers online 
faster and in a more orderly manner. [ ] Meta therefore recommends that the 
Commission develop guidance, best practices, and, where appropriate, minimum 
standards as the starting point for improving nationwide interconnection processes for 
large loads. [P]romulgating binding rules that standardize large load interconnection . 
. . too soon may risk hindering the ongoing private-sector innovation occurring to 
interconnect large loads and bogging down the efficient interconnection processes that 
some utilities already use.10 
h. Equinix, Inc. stated “[w]e recognize that long-standing jurisdictional issues between 
the federal, state and local governments are implicated by the Proposed ANOPR. While 
we do not opine as to appropriate jurisdictions to address energy interconnections of 
large loads, as an organizing principle we suggest that these issues are too important, 
too urgent and too interrelated for jurisdictions to act in an uncoordinated fashion.”11 
 
9  Edison Electric Institute at 4, 22. 
10 Meta Platforms, Inc. at 3-4. 
11 Equinix, Inc. at 4. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
 
i. The Data Center Coalition stated “[a]s the Commission evaluates whether and how to 
exercise its authority, DCC respectfully urges a measured approach that recognizes the 
historic balance of federal and state roles embedded in the Federal Power Act. States 
remain indispensable partners in regulating retail service, overseeing siting and 
permitting, and supporting local and regional economic priorities. Their engagement 
and support will be critical to the success of any final framework.”12 
Due to significant concerns raised in the comments over the permissibility of FERC’s legal 
authority regarding certain traditional state jurisdiction matters (e.g., retail sales and local 
distribution), NARUC requests that the Commission work closely with state PUCs on these issues. 
2. NARUC Proposes FERC Schedule a Technical Conference in January 2026 
As stated in our Initial Comments, NARUC pledges to engage with regulated entities and 
other stakeholders to explore consensus solutions for FERC’s consideration that will help meet 
national goals for large load interconnection, while avoiding disputes over jurisdiction that would 
unduly impede attaining this goal. Again, working together, under the concept of cooperative 
federalism, will lead to optimal solutions.   
Accordingly, NARUC respectfully requests that the Commission schedule a two-day 
technical conference in January 2026, to explore viable solutions with key stakeholders. During 
these two days, Commissioners will have the opportunity to seek clarification from various 
commenters that have specific ideas regarding a consensus-based solution.  A few examples of 
suggestions on potential paths forward are outlined in the comments provided by the Virginia State 
Corporation Commission, Large Public Power Council, Chevron U.S.A., Inc., Meta Platforms, 
Inc. Edison Electric Institute, New England States Committee on Electricity, the Organization of 
 
12  The Data Center Coalition at 4. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
 
PJM States, and the Organization of MISO States.  A technical conference will provide relevant 
entities with the opportunity to provide insights to the Commission as well as the opportunity to 
exchange ideas with each other and coalesce regarding solutions. 
3. If FERC Proceeds to a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, FERC Should Take 
Certain Actions 
If FERC proceeds to a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, FERC should engage in a deep 
and significant collaboration with state regulators to ensure that the states’ and other parties’ 
significant, valid concerns regarding the preservation of traditional state jurisdictional authority 
over matters such as retail sales, resource adequacy, and local distribution, are addressed. This 
collaboration should be a top priority.  The state PUCs, regional entities, and other commenters 
explained that they are already addressing large load interconnections and that FERC should not 
take any action that would derail the successful efforts of state regulators and regional entities to 
address large load interconnections. Any rule should provide for flexibility and should account for 
regional diversity and market structure diversity.  Some commenters stress that any future rule 
should only apply to participants involved in a regional transmission organization or independent 
system operator.13 
Any rule must also ensure that all large load interconnections comply with NERC 
reliability standards and Open Access Transmission Tariff provisions, including technical 
requirements for system protection facilities for hybrid projects and potential penalties for 
unauthorized power injections or withdrawals. Any proposed rule should specify that large load 
 
13 Georgia Public Service Commission at 2-3; Duke Energy Corporation at 7. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 
 
customers are responsible for 100% of the upgrade costs consistent with the cost causation 
principle. Further, any rule must ensure that the seven-factor test is applied properly.14 
CONCLUSION 
 
NARUC respectfully requests that the Commission bring federal and state regulators 
together, along with other important stakeholders, for a detailed examination of challenges, 
opportunities, and goals.  Through this process, NARUC believes that a solution can be developed 
to achieve the Administration’s and FERC’s goals, to avoid unintended consequences for 
consumers, and to adhere to the parameters of the FPA.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/ Kimberly W. Duffley 
 
James Bradford Ramsay 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GENERAL COUNSEL 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kimberly W. Duffley 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SENIOR DIRECTOR OF ENERGY POLICY  
AND LEGAL COUNSEL 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
National Association of Regulatory 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Utility Commissioners 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1101 Vermont Avenue, Suite 401 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Washington, DC 20005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
kduffley@naruc.org 
202.898.1350 
 
Dated: December 5, 2025 
 
 
14  North Dakota Public Service Commission at 2-4; Pennsylvania Public Service Commission at 4-7; North 
Carolina Utilities Commission at 2. 

--- PAGE 9 ---
9 
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
 
I hereby certify that I have this day served the foregoing document upon each person designated 
on the official service list compiled by the Secretary in this proceeding. 
 
Dated at Washington, DC: December 5, 2025 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/ Kimberly W. Duffley 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kimberly W. Duffley 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SENIOR DIRECTOR OF ENERGY POLICY  
AND LEGAL COUNSEL 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
National Association of Regulatory 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Utility Commissioners 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1101 Vermont Avenue, Suite 401 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Washington, DC 20005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
kduffley@naruc.org 
202.898.1350 
