--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate 
Transmission System 
) 
) 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
COMMENTS OF THE EDISON ELECTRIC INSTITUTE 
The Edison Electric Institute (“EEI”) respectfully submits initial comments in response to 
the Notice Inviting Comments and Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) issued 
by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC” or “Commission”) on October 27, 2025.1  
The Secretary of the Department of Energy (the “DOE”) has directed the Commission to consider 
the ANOPR as a means to standardize interconnection procedures and agreements for large loads. 
EEI, as the association that represents all U.S. investor-owned electric companies, brings 
a unique and crucial perspective.  EEI member companies serve nearly 250 million Americans and 
operate in all fifty states and the District of Columbia.  EEI members own and operate our nation’s 
most critical infrastructure—the generation, transmission, and distribution infrastructure that make 
up our nation’s grid—and are at the forefront of integrating large loads into the grid today.  More 
than any other industry constituency, EEI members are central to achieving the objectives of 
accelerating the integration of large loads to advance our nation’s economic and national security 
interests while also ensuring the delivery of reliable and affordable energy to everyday Americans.  
We are deploying our innovation and expertise to address this challenge.  We look forward to 
working with the Commission on these shared goals. 
 
1 Notice Inviting Comments, Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission Sys., 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 (filed Oct. 27, 2025) (the “Notice Inviting Comments” on the “ANOPR” filed 
therewith). 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
 
 
 
2 
I. 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  
America’s electric companies are working every day to keep electricity as reliable and as 
affordable as possible for the 250 million customers we proudly serve.  EEI shares the 
Administration’s commitment to American energy dominance and specifically supports the 
ANOPR’s goals to improve the speed, efficiency, fairness, and predictability of large load2 
interconnections.  EEI member companies are committed to ensuring the timely interconnection 
of large loads while also ensuring benefits and protection for all customers and the grid.  We are 
focused on a path forward that supports reliability, promotes investment, and aligns with the 
important role and interests of states.  
As we speak, across the country, EEI member companies are working with their state 
regulators, large load customers, and other stakeholders to integrate large loads—including data 
centers, hyperscalers, manufacturing facilities, and other high-demand customers—into the 
electric system through state-regulated large load tariffs and bilateral retail service agreements.  
EEI members are also working with independent system operators (“ISOs”) and regional 
transmission organizations (“RTOs”) to address these challenges in parallel with state-level 
reforms.  The right outcome of this proceeding is a sure-footed response by the Commission that 
acts in concert with ongoing efforts by utilities, states, and ISO/RTOs. 
To assist the Commission in navigating this path, EEI offers a number of enhancements to 
the ANOPR’s proposals based on our member companies’ on-the-ground experience.  EEI’s 
recommended enhancements are focused on ensuring that any Commission action improves 
 
2 See ANOPR at PP 1, 12.  The term “large loads” as used herein refers to retail/end-use load.  See 
Letter from Hon. Chris Wright, Sec’y of Energy to the Comm’rs of the FERC, at 1 (Oct. 23, 2025), 
(identifying “AI data centers” as examples of large loads).  

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
 
 
 
3 
affordability and reliability for all grid users and avoids unfair cost shifts that could harm everyday 
customers.  They include: 
• 
Ensuring that large load customers pay for their share of system costs.  
Large load customers should be required to pay for their use of the 
transmission system rather than be directly assigned the costs of the network 
upgrades required to interconnect to the system.  The Commission should 
also endorse EEI members’ tested mechanisms to ensure that the costs of 
interconnecting large load customers do not burden other transmission 
customers in communities across our country.   
• 
Avoiding unreasonable cost shifts by adopting a default rule that co-located 
loads pay for transmission and ancillary services on a gross basis, absent a 
different utility and state-approved framework.  This customer protective 
approach ensures large loads pay for the transmission system on which they 
depend.  This cost allocation approach must be paired with planning 
approaches that ensure the efficient build-out of the system.     
• 
Raising the 20 MW default threshold to qualify as a large load customer, 
which is necessary to ensure any reforms do not capture customers for 
whom the ANOPR was not designed.  A one-size-fits-all threshold may not 
be appropriate, but 100 MW should be the minimum default threshold, 
subject to regional variation. 
• 
Ensuring infrastructure safeguards.  The option-to-build proposal raises 
reliability concerns.  If adopted, the Commission should require critical and 
necessary safeguards.   
• 
Protecting reliability and resource adequacy.  If existing generation is 
diverted to serve a particular large load, studies related to reliability and 
local resource adequacy will be necessary to protect other existing 
customers.   
• 
Requiring meaningful commitments.  The Commission should promote 
certainty through meaningful study deposits and other related 
interconnection commitments.   
• 
Preserving existing arrangements and promoting new arrangements.  The 
Commission should allow any mechanisms adopted in response to the 
ANOPR to coincide with arrangements put in place by RTOs/ISOs or 
utilities working with state regulators and large load customers.   
EEI also addresses the jurisdictional framework that must guide any reforms.  Our aim is 
to help identify a strong path forward.  We encourage the Commission to harmonize any action it 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
 
 
 
4 
takes in response to the ANOPR with the Federal Power Act’s (“FPA’s”) longstanding 
jurisdictional boundaries around retail service.  Though the Commission has jurisdiction over 
wholesale and unbundled retail transmission service and exercises certain jurisdiction over 
generator interconnection service as a component of wholesale transmission service, questions 
remain as to the scope of the Commission’s jurisdiction relative to the fourteen principles 
articulated in the ANOPR.  And as described below, interconnection service for retail end-use 
customers (including large load customers) is regulated by the states under the existing regulatory 
paradigm.  Any Commission action must recognize that large load customers are end-use retail 
customers, meaning the delivery service they receive necessarily includes an element of local 
distribution service.3  Even in states that have elected to restructure their electric industry and 
implement retail choice, the states require that local utilities secure wholesale transmission service 
on behalf of all retail customers so that they can procure this competitive generation supply.   
Importantly, the Commission can advance meaningful reforms without wading into the 
most sensitive jurisdictional issues.  Recent action from the ISO/RTOs, states, and individual 
utilities illustrates there can be a clear and quick path for the Commission to have an impact.   
We also underscore the importance of providing a clear signal to market participants that 
the progress they have made to bring large load customers onto the system will not be undermined.  
Across the country, there are countless large load customers who are already interconnected to the 
transmission system or are in various stages of working through the process to interconnect.  
Affirming the validity of these existing agreements and ongoing efforts will help avoid the 
 
3 Promoting Wholesale Competition Through Open Access Non-Discriminatory Transmission 
Servs. by Pub. Utils., Recovery of Stranded Costs by Pub. Utils. & Transmitting Utils., Order No. 888, 
FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,036, at 31,783 (1996) (“Order No. 888”), aff’d in relevant part sub nom., 
Transmission Access Policy Study Grp. v. FERC, 225 F.3d 667 (D.C. Cir. 2000), aff’d sub nom., New York 
v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1 (2002). 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
 
 
 
5 
potential for delay and hesitation by large load customers and utilities, which are evaluating major 
capital investments right now.  Providing such certainty is consistent with the Commission’s 
mandate under the ANOPR to accelerate large load interconnection.  
 
Accordingly, while the Commission considers the scope of any reforms concerning large 
load customers, it is imperative that the Commission provide, at the earliest juncture, clear and 
unambiguous guidance to market participants that existing agreements and ongoing processes will 
be honored.   
II. 
PROPOSED ENHANCEMENTS TO DOE’S PRINCIPLES FOR REFORM 
The fourteen principles DOE set forth in the proposed ANOPR provide a helpful 
framework for thinking through the challenges of large load interconnection.  The Commission 
can and should build on these principles.  To that end, EEI recommends a number of enhancements 
based on EEI members’ significant experience working to interconnect large loads to their 
respective systems.  These enhancements seek to ensure that any reforms are tailored to loads of 
appropriate sizes; achieve the objective of speed without compromising reliability; and respect and 
enhance customer protections so everyday Americans are not unjustly subsidizing large load 
customers—all the while respecting the important role of states.  EEI looks forward to providing 
additional comments and suggestions as the record develops in this proceeding. 
A. 
The Default Threshold for Large Load Status Must Be Raised Above 20 
MW. 
The ANOPR suggests that interconnection reforms should apply to loads (or net loads, in 
the case of hybrid facilities) of 20 MW or more—the existing threshold for standardized large 
generation interconnection procedures.4  This default threshold is far too low for the ANOPR’s 
 
4 Id. at P 19.  

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
 
 
 
6 
specific focus; as proposed, it would capture numerous traditional industrial and commercial 
customers that are outside the stated intent of the ANOPR.5   
We caution that any reforms to accelerate the interconnection of large loads may, in some 
parts of the country, threaten reliable power service if not properly crafted.  And not all large load 
customers will have the same system impacts.  Only a few months ago, NERC’s Large Loads Task 
Force cautioned that the task of defining large load customers was complicated by the fact there 
are “numerous categories and subtypes of large loads” that may have substantially different 
operational characteristics.6  NERC observed that, as a result, “the potential clarity and ease of a 
universal threshold for large load would likely be outweighed by over- or under-inclusion of 
impactful large load with corresponding high costs for inadequate improvement to [bulk power 
system] reliability.”7   
Considering these reliability concerns, the 20 MW threshold is inappropriate for the 
specific, high-impact load customers that the ANOPR is intending to address.  If the Commission 
adopts a universal default or threshold definition of large load customers premised on that 
customer’s (gross) peak demand, it should be no lower than 100 MW, allowing for flexibility to 
reflect the unique circumstances of the region.8  This level reflects a commonly held view of what 
 
5 The proposed 20 MW threshold also lies at a point where lines are hard to draw—the distinction 
between a 19 MW customer and a 21 MW customer can easily be fortuitous or fluctuating, while greater 
minimum requirements are more likely to cleanly divide load customers and align outcomes with the intent 
of this policymaking effort.   
6 NERC, White Paper: Characteristics and Risks of Emerging Large Loads, at 11 (July. 2025) 
(“NERC 
Large 
Load 
White 
Paper”), 
https://www.nerc.com/comm/RSTCReviewItems/3_Doc_White%20Paper%20Characteristics%20and%2
0Risks%20of%20Emerging%20Large%20Loads.pdf 
7 Reliability Tech. Conf., Pre-Conf. Comments of N. Am. Elec. Reliability Corp., Docket No. 
AD25-8, at 18 (filed Oct. 21, 2025) (“NERC Pre-Conf. Comments”).   
8 While EEI believes it necessary to raise the national threshold to 100 MW, EEI also recognizes 
that the specific characteristics of a particular region or state may support a lower threshold based on the 
 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
 
 
 
7 
constitutes a “large load” consistent with NERC’s focused discussions on these topics.  There is a 
risk that a default threshold below 100 MW will include too many different customer loads with 
highly variable load characteristics—a result that would amplify the operational challenges 
associated with their expedited connection to the grid and subsequent provision of retail service, 
as well as the reliability challenge of accommodating those characteristics in the everyday 
functioning of the grid.  A lower threshold may also produce unintended detriments to economic 
development and reshoring activities.  Adopting a higher threshold figure is an appropriate and 
measured approach to this developing issue.   
In any case, the Commission should consider allowing individual states, distribution 
utilities, and ISO/RTOs to develop (or expand) their own criteria and choose a figure appropriate 
for their systems.9  As explained by NERC, the primary risk of a one-size-fits-all threshold for 
large load customers is that it fails to take into account how potential large load customers’ “impact 
on reliability” is shaped by the “unique size and dynamic characteristics” of the transmission 
system around the point of interconnection.10  That is why NERC has preliminarily adopted a 
definition of large load customers based on the real-world impacts of these facilities: 
Any commercial or industrial individual load facility or aggregation 
of load facilities at a single site behind one or more point(s) of 
interconnection that can pose reliability risks to the [bulk power 
system] due to its demand, operational characteristics, or other 
factors.  Examples include, but are not limited to, data centers, 
 
circumstances of that location and the Commission should allow utilities to propose use of a lower threshold 
based on their circumstances.   
9 In addition, all retail customers, no matter their size, should retain the right to not have to take 
unbundled Commission-jurisdictional Open Access Transmission Tariff (“OATT”) service for 
interconnection and transmission purposes.  That is, the Commission should not mandate that retail 
customers above any minimum size must take OATT transmission and interconnection service, rather than 
retail service. 
10 NERC Pre-Conf. Comments at 18.    

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
 
 
 
8 
cryptocurrency 
mining 
facilities, 
hydrogen 
electrolyzers, 
manufacturing facilities, and arc furnaces.11 
Adopting an approach like that of NERC would minimize the disruption of existing efforts by 
states, utilities, and ISO/RTOs to provide specialized procedures for the interconnection of large 
load and avoid imposing a duplicative process that would require time, resources, and costs that 
ultimately would be passed on to customers. 
NERC is actively developing its own analysis and criteria around large load 
interconnection, which may soon provide a framework for specific thresholds/characteristics.12  
Regardless, any definition of large load should be limited to an individual commercial or industrial 
load facility or aggregation of load facilities at a single site behind one or more point(s) of 
interconnection.  
B. 
Large Loads Should Pay for Their Share of System Costs and Other 
Customers Should Not Be Negatively Impacted  
The ANOPR posits that large load facilities “should be responsible for 100% of the 
network upgrades that they are assigned through the interconnection studies.”13  The ANOPR also 
asks “whether such costs should be offset through a crediting mechanism and, if so, over how 
many years.”14  The ANOPR’s discussion of these points references funding practices from earlier 
policy and rulemaking around generator interconnections.  EEI fully agrees that large load 
customers should pay for their share of the transmission system necessary to serve their needs.  
Although the generator interconnection model identifies useful questions for evaluating an 
appropriate funding mechanism for large load interconnections, funding models from generator 
 
11 NERC Large Load White Paper at 1. 
12 NERC Pre-Conf. Comments at 15-16.   
13 See ANOPR at P 25. 
14 Id. 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
 
 
 
9 
interconnections reflected in the ANOPR are inapposite to large load interconnections.15  
Generator interconnections and load interconnections are significantly different.  Thus, different 
considerations and precedent must be considered.   
Rather than only directly assigning costs of the network upgrades necessary to connect 
large load customers, the Commission should require them to pay for their share of the 
transmission system.  The Commission’s longstanding precedent is that network upgrade costs are 
rolled into transmission providers’ rates and charged to all system customers.  As a result, all 
customers pay for their share of the transmission system based on their connection to and use of 
the system and thus, large load customers will, by virtue of their size, pay for their proportional 
share of the costs.  The obligation can be further shored-up by placing appropriate requirements 
on the large load customers to ensure that costs are not forced on other customers if the load does 
not actually materialize.  EEI members, working with state regulators and stakeholders, have 
developed customer-protective solutions that are in practice today to cordon off the cross-
subsidization risks of the costs of large load additions unfairly burdening existing utility customers.  
Those solutions provide a good roadmap for addressing these issues.16  These tested and proven 
approaches together with the Commission’s traditional ratemaking policy are more rational and 
effective than direct assignment of 100% of the costs of network upgrades.   
 
15 The basis for the Commission’s decision in Order 2003 to have the generator provide the initial 
funding are not relevant here.  In Order No. 2003, the Commission required the generator to initially fund 
network upgrades: (1) to address any concerns that construction would not timely commence because the 
transmission provider was in need of finding additional funding sources, and (2) to encourage the generator 
to efficiently site and therefore minimize the network upgrade costs that it would finance in the first 
instance.  See Standardization of Generator Interconnection Agreements & Procs., Order No. 2003-A, 
FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,160, at P 613 (“Order No. 2003-A”), aff’d sub nom., Nat’l Ass’n of Regul. Util. 
Comm’rs v. FERC, 475 F.3d 1277 (D.C. Cir 2007) (“NARUC”).  Neither concern is relevant here.   
16 See e.g., PECO Energy Co., Transmission Sec. Agreement between PECO & Amazon Data 
Servs. Inc., Docket No. ER25-3492-000 (filed Sep. 23, 2025) (“PECO Energy Sep. 23, 2025 Filing”). 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
 
 
 
10 
1. 
Large Loads Must Pay Their Share of Transmission System 
Infrastructure, Which Will Benefit All Customers 
With new large end-use loads being served by the transmission system, the Commission 
should ensure that all customers benefit from spreading costs of the transmission system to these 
large load customers.  Large load customers will use and benefit from the broader system and, 
therefore, should pay their fair share as users of that system rather than cover only certain costs.17  
The Commission has consistently found that network upgrades are integrated with the transmission 
system and therefore, benefit all customers who use the integrated transmission system.18  Thus, 
they should be paid for by all customers using the transmission system.  In contrast, 
interconnection facilities exclusively benefit the interconnection customer and therefore should be 
directly assigned to that customer.  There is no reason to believe that this basic framework will 
change as more large loads interconnect or that large loads should be treated differently.  Integrated 
transmission network upgrades necessary to support these new customers will necessarily benefit 
 
17 Direct assignment of network upgrade costs to load that also pays for transmission service runs 
afoul of decades of the Commission’s “and” pricing policy precedent.  Pennsylvania Elec. Co., 60 FERC 
¶ 61,034, at 61,124 (1992).  The notion of a load paying 100% of its network upgrade costs and a rolled-in 
transmission rate is vulnerable to legal challenges on discrimination grounds.   
18 See Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 187 FERC ¶ 61,170, at P 4 (2024) (footnote omitted) 
(“[P]ursuant to rolled-in pricing, network upgrade costs are included in transmission rates and paid for by 
all users of the transmission system that are charged transmission rates.”); S.C. Elec., Gas Co., 118 FERC 
¶ 61,185, at P 26 (2007) (citation omitted) (“[W]e have consistently priced the transmission service of a 
non-independent transmission provider based on the cost of the grid as a whole, and have rejected proposals 
to directly assign the cost of network upgrades.”); Order No. 2003-A, FERC Stats. & Regs.¶ 31,160 at 
P 424 (“Since Network Upgrades provide a system-wide benefit, expenses associated with owning, 
maintaining, repairing, and replacing them shall be recovered from all Transmission Customers rather than 
being directly assigned to the Interconnection Customer.”) (citation omitted); Entergy Servs., Inc. v. FERC, 
319 F.3d 536, 544–45 (D.C. Cir. 2003) (noting “the consistent application of the Commission’s long-held 
view . . . that the transmission grid is an integrated whole” and “the Commission’s long-standing rejection 
of direct assignment of network costs”); San Diego Gas & Elec. Co., 98 FERC ¶ 61,332, at 62,407 (2002) 
(finding that “upgrades  . . . to existing, high voltage transmission facilities and are clearly network 
upgrades” and that “rolled in treatment is warranted because of our traditional policy for such network 
upgrades”); Removing Obstacles to Increased Elec. Generation & Nat. Gas Supply in the W. United States, 
96 FERC ¶ 61,155, at 61,674 (2001) (citation omitted) (“With regard to network upgrade costs, the 
Commission has had a consistent policy of assigning the costs of facilities with system-wide benefits to all 
customers on an integrated transmission grid.”). 

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
 
 
 
11 
the entire grid and, therefore, their costs should be allocated across all transmission users.19  Such 
an approach has the additional benefit of avoiding many of the jurisdictional concerns discussed 
below.   
Integrating large load customers will require an unprecedented level of investment across 
a substantial portion of EEI members’ transmission systems.  EEI member experience is that the 
network upgrades for a single large customer can require tens to hundreds of millions of dollars in 
transmission investment (in addition to required distribution investment, if any).  EEI member 
companies are eager to work with new large load customers to help secure America’s future and 
drive economic development and to make the necessary investments to support this outcome.  
However, those investments must be made in a constructive and predictable environment that 
provides the opportunity to earn a return of and on the entirety of the transmission network, 
including the transmission upgrades necessary to interconnect new large loads.20  That approach 
is the foundation for utilities’ ability to provide Americans with safe, reliable, and affordable 
power over the long term. 
 
19 Network upgrades, by definition, are integrated transmission facilities.  If any Direct Assignment 
Facilities (“DAF”) are caused by a large load interconnection, their costs would be directly assigned to the 
entity requesting service, absent other arrangement. 
20 EEI and its member companies have developed an extensive factual record in other proceedings 
of how their stewardship of network upgrades, even when initial construction is funded by other parties, 
increases their risks.  See Answer to Order to Show Cause of the PJM Transmission Owners, Docket No. 
EL24-81-000, at 5 (filed Sep. 11, 2024); Response of MISO Transmission Owners to the June 13, 2024 
Show Cause Order, Docket No. EL24-80-000, at 79-80 (filed Sep. 11, 2024); Mot. to Terminate Proceeding, 
Alternative Mot. to Hold Proceeding in Abeyance, & Resps. of the Southwest Power Pool Transmission 
Owner Grp., Docket No. EL24-82-000, App. A at 21-23 (filed Sep. 11, 2024); Resp. to the June 13, 2024 
Order to Show Cause of ISO New England, Inc., Docket No. EL24-83-000, Attach.1:  Response to Order 
to Show Cause of the Indicated New England Transmission Owners, at 54-55 (filed Sep. 11, 2024); PJM 
Transmission Owners Revisions to OATT, Docket No. ER21-2282-000, at 13-17 (filed June 30, 2021). 

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
 
 
 
12 
2. 
Large Load Customers Should Make Appropriate Financial 
Commitments to Support the Investments Their Interconnection Will 
Require. 
While large loads can require extensive network upgrades, there is also a risk that such 
large loads may not fully materialize as initially assumed.  Accordingly, there should be measures 
to ensure other customers are not burdened in those situations.  EEI members must act prudently 
to avoid shifting costs to other customers and should not be required to build transmission facilities 
to serve large load customers without sufficient financial commitments from those customers.   
Currently EEI members are tackling this challenge through enhanced security and credit 
requirements, minimum commitment requirements, and other ratemaking mechanisms that have 
been developed with state regulators and large load customers.  To aid the Commission, we offer 
the following examples of customer-protective mechanisms:   
• 
Large loads could initially fund the cost of network upgrades and/or 
interconnection facilities and the transmission owner/provider could return 
the funds upon energization of the network upgrades over a period not to 
exceed 20 years, with the transmission plant includable in rate base of the 
transmission owner/provider, as credits paid. 
• 
Large loads could provide security for network upgrades.21  The upgrades 
would be funded by the transmission owner/provider who could rate base 
the upgrades upon energization, and return the security to the customer over 
time as the transmission rates pay down the cost of the network upgrades.   
• 
Large loads could be obligated to minimum term commitments for 
transmission service or other revenue contribution assurance mechanisms, 
which would ensure that if transmission facilities are built to serve new 
large load customers, some period and level of service is guaranteed to be 
taken and corresponding payments made by the large load customer.22   
 
21 Importantly, security or similar assurance should not be required at both the federal and state 
level for the same facilities/service.   
22 Some EEI members include “take or pay” mechanisms for a minimum number of years (often 
ten years or more, and typically with a load ramp period) to ensure that other customers are not harmed by 
investments that utilities make to serve these large loads.  See e.g., PECO Energy Sep. 23, 2025 Filing. 

--- PAGE 13 ---
 
 
 
 
13 
• 
Utilities could rely on security provided for bundled retail service as part of 
their state retail tariffs.   
• 
Utilities could, working in conjunction with the respective state regulators 
and large load customers, propose other mechanisms to satisfy these 
requirements. 
The Commission should recognize the importance of flexibility and endorse a suite of potential 
customer-protective options, which could be used individually or together, to meet unique 
challenges.  The Commission should allow these options to be proposed as part of any tariff reform 
requirements.  Individual transmission operators may determine that credit quality of the 
interconnecting large load customer be an appropriate consideration when evaluating the 
appropriate option.23 
C. 
The Commission Must Ensure Proper Protections If It Provides the Option 
to Build for Large Load Customers. 
Building the new infrastructure required to serve new end-use load customers is a 
fundamental function of regulated utilities.  Under Order No. 2003 and its progeny, a generator 
interconnection customer can effectively exercise a unilateral right to construct transmission 
provider’s interconnection facilities and stand-alone network upgrades (collectively, “OTB 
facilities”).24  The ANOPR suggests that large load customers should be given “the same (or 
equivalent) option.”25  However, providing large load customers with the option to build such OTB 
facilities raises significant reliability concerns that must be addressed.   
 
23 Additionally, the Commission’s longstanding “higher of” policy, allowing the charging of the 
higher of either incremental or rolled-in transmission costs, should remain available as a protection to 
existing customers which would allow the charging of an incremental transmission rates in situations where 
required network upgrades are so costly as to make the incremental rate exceed the rolled-in rate.  E.g., 
Order No. 2003-A, FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,160 at P 586 (applying “higher of” principle in generator 
interconnection context). 
24 See Reform of Generator Interconnection Procs. & Agreements, Order No. 845, 163 FERC 
¶ 61,043, at P 3 (2018) (“Order No. 845”). 
25 See ANOPR at P 26. 

--- PAGE 14 ---
 
 
 
 
14 
The Commission’s decision to grant generator interconnection customers unilateral rights 
to construct OTB facilities came in connection with Order No. 845 (more than a decade after the 
Commission had initially provided a conditional possibility for generators to construct OTB 
facilities).  At the time, EEI cautioned that while generation interconnection customers claimed 
“that they are often able to build more rapidly and at a lower cost than transmission providers, . . . 
speed-to-market . . . cannot be a priority over, or achieved at the detriment of, grid safety and 
reliability.”26  EEI believes now, as it did then, that grid safety and reliability must be the guiding 
principles for the Commission as it considers breaking new ground and extending the option to 
build to large load customers—which may be sophisticated actors operating in certain technical 
fields or even in constructing their own technical facilities and equipment, but may lack a 
meaningful track record with respect to integrated network transmission facilities.27   
Accordingly, if the Commission requires an option to build be provided to all large load 
customers, it must also require necessary safeguards to protect the reliability of the transmission 
grid.  First, it must ensure that the option to build is strictly limited to transmission owner 
interconnection facilities and stand-alone network upgrades,28 to limit any broader system impacts.  
Second, all facilities must be built to the standards and specifications provided in advance by the 
transmission owners and must adhere to applicable NERC requirements.  Third, the transmission 
owner must be given the right to approve the engineering design, equipment acceptance tests, and 
construction itself.  Fourth, any contractor used by the interconnection customer must be from an 
 
26 See Reform Generator Interconnection Procs. & Agreements, Comments of the Edison Elec. 
Inst., Docket No. RM17-8-000, at 17-18 (filed Apr. 13, 2017).   
27 In addition, load is not subject to the Commission’s jurisdiction and may not be able to obtain 
certificates of public convenience and necessity if required.  
28 “Stand Alone Network Upgrades shall mean [n]etwork [u]pgrades . . .  that an Interconnection 
Customer may construct without affecting day-to-day operations of the Transmission System during their 
construction . . . .”  See Pro Forma Large Generator Interconnection Agreement, Art. 1, Definitions. 

--- PAGE 15 ---
 
 
 
 
15 
approved list of contractors supplied by the transmission owner.  Fifth, the transmission owner 
must have oversight of these activities to satisfy compliance with the applicable standards and 
specifications for the construction of facilities.  And finally, the interconnection customers must 
agree to indemnify the transmission owner from any liability resulting from their construction of 
the facilities.  These requirements are a minimum set of standards that must be required to protect 
the reliability of the transmission system for all customers.   
D. 
Loads in Co-Location Arrangements Use the Transmission System and 
Should Pay for That Use  
In some circumstances, co-location arrangements provide the opportunity for valuable 
system efficiencies and support speed to power.  Such arrangements should be pursued where such 
configurations support reliability and security of the grid and should be structured to avoid cost 
shifts to other customers.  Any rule concerning co-located facilities must recognize that load co-
located with a generator interconnected to the transmission system uses and benefits from the 
transmission system and therefore must pay for its share of transmission and transmission-related 
costs.29   
1. 
The Commission Must Ensure Co-Location Rules Prevent Free-
Riding. 
The ANOPR proposes that utilities “serving large loads, including those at hybrid facilities, 
should be responsible for transmission service based on their withdrawal rights, as that value 
amount reflects the quantity of capacity and energy that is being transmitted across the 
transmission system to the load.”30  The ANOPR also proposes that utilities serving large loads, 
including those at hybrid facilities, should be responsible for ancillary services based on peak 
 
29 “Islanded” load and generation are not the subject of the ANOPR. 
30 ANOPR at P 28.   

--- PAGE 16 ---
 
 
 
 
16 
demand, without consideration of any co-located generation.31  The latter statement is the better 
approach.  The reasons for the “net” treatment of the large load for transmission cost-allocation 
purposes and “gross” treatment of it for ancillary services purposes are not explained or justified, 
and the ANOPR appears to acknowledge the load’s dependence on the system on a gross basis.32  
There is no reason to treat the two differently.33  Rather, to ensure fairness and avoid 
implementation complexity, the Commission should make a gross load approach the default for 
both ancillary services and transmission, subject to exception only if a utility supports and the state 
approves a different approach.   
Adopting the gross load approach, as a default, fairly allocates the costs of transmission 
and ancillary services.  Commission precedent supports a gross load approach: 
the relevant provisions for Network Service under Midwest ISO’s 
OATT track the Commission’s Order No. 888 pro forma OATT, and 
the Commission made clear in Order No. 888 and its progeny that 
the entire load at a discreet [sic] point of delivery must be designated 
as Network Load, including load served by behind-the-meter 
generation, regardless of whether the load is served at retail or 
wholesale.34  
Indeed, the Commission summed up load customers’ transmission service choices in Order No. 
888-A:  “The bottom line is that all potential transmission customers, including those with 
 
31 Id. P 29.   
32 Id.  As suggested by the ANOPR, a “gross load approach” is the allocation of costs based on 
“peak demand, without consideration of any co-located generation.”  See id.  This approach aligns with 
how utilities plan for and provide network services.  See Nat’l R.R. Passenger Corp. v. PPL Elec. Corp., 
171 FERC ¶ 61,237, at P 43 (2020) (citations omitted) (noting that “one of the significant benefits of 
network service” is that “the transmission provider plans and provides for firm transmission capacity 
sufficient to meet the customer’s current and projected peak loads . . . even when behind the meter or 
alternative supply is unavailable.”); see also Tri-State Generation & Transmission Ass’n, 184 FERC ¶ 
61,099, P 201 (2023) (citation omitted) (“[T]he Commission has consistently found that the gross load 
approach is appropriate for network transmission service.”). 
33 Ancillary services are inextricably linked to transmission service.  Order No. 888, FERC Stats. 
& Regs. ¶ 31,036 at 31,703 (“ancillary services are needed to provide basic transmission service”). 
34 Midwest Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 106 FERC ¶ 61,073, at P 26 (2004) (citations omitted).  

--- PAGE 17 ---
 
 
 
 
17 
generation behind the meter, must choose between network integration transmission service or 
point-to-point transmission service.”35  As a default, co-located load at hybrid facilities should be 
treated the same as load in front of the meter, unless a state approves a different approach.  This 
will ensure that such loads are appropriately charged and factored-in by transmission providers.   
It has been almost twenty-five years since the Commission rejected arguments that certain 
loads simply did not “use” the transmission grid.36  The wholesale loads in question were located 
on the distribution system and would have been sold power by generators located on the same 
system, but the arguments made were nearly identical to those being made by advocates of netting.  
The ALJ found, and the Commission fully affirmed, that the: 
theory behind Enron’s [no transmission], distribution-only service 
depends on the technical ability of such service to operate in 
isolation from the ISO Grid.  If anything has been proven in respect 
to this issue, it is that [no transmission,] distribution-only service 
would have numerous effects on the ISO grid and cannot be 
performed in isolation from the ISO grid.37   
The Commission should not adopt a default rule that could disguise some large load customers’ 
level of reliance on the transmission system. 
2. 
In Parallel, Commission Policies Should Support Efficient System 
Planning.  
It is important to ensure that all loads, including co-located loads at hybrid facilities, pay 
their fair share of grid costs.  However, there is no tension between adopting cost-allocation 
mechanisms to ensure fairness, and planning approaches to ensure the system is built to 
 
35 Order No. 888-A, FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,048, at 30,260 (1997) (“Order No. 888-A”), 
subsequent history omitted. 
36 E.g., Pac. Gas & Elec. Co., 88 FERC ¶ 63,007 (1998) (holding that distribution service cannot 
be performed in isolation from an ISO grid), aff’d 100 FERC ¶ 61,156, reh’g denied, 101 FERC ¶ 61,151 
(2002), vacated and remanded on other grounds, S. Cal. Edison Co. v. FERC, 415 F.3d 17 (D.C. Cir. 2005). 
37 Id., 88 FERC at 65,075 (citation modified). 

--- PAGE 18 ---
 
 
 
 
18 
accommodate new loads efficiently.  The Commission’s policies should encourage utilities and 
ISO/RTOs to properly plan the system based on expected use.  Adopting a default policy of gross 
load for the purpose of allocating transmission service costs does not mean that system planning 
should ignore the realities of a configuration’s specific impact to the grid.  To rationally study and 
plan transmission for a balancing authority with multiple co-located loads, a transmission provider 
should be allowed to take into account the nature of the co-located loads (i.e., curtailability), the 
nature of any special protection systems (not all of which may be sufficient to support a netting 
approach), whether there is on-site back-up generation, probabilistic analysis, and myriad other 
factors.  For example, the nature of the load may play an important role in interconnection and 
planning studies, as there may be loads that support national defense and mission critical cyber-
security customers where the need for an uninterrupted supply is essential.  However, not all large 
loads would reach this level of critical need.   
In short, the allocation of transmission service costs on a gross load basis can and should 
co-exist with holistic transmission system planning that recognizes the benefits of co-located load 
and drives an efficient build-out of the system.  To this end, the Commission should extend 
accelerated study benefits—if any are established in a Final Rule—to arrangements involving load 
and facilities located in proximity to each other but not at the same point of interconnection.38  
Additionally, many regions of the country address transmission planning in accordance with state-
jurisdictional integrated resource planning. The Commission should avoid duplicative, and 
potentially inconsistent, treatment of these issues for utilities that operate in those regions.   
 
38 The SPP region offers one example for consideration.  Southwest Power Pool, Inc., Transmittal 
Letter, Submission of Tariff Revisions to Add the High Impact Large Load Process & High Impact Large 
Load Generation Assessment, Docket No. ER26-247, at 5 (filed Oct. 24, 2025) (“Southwest Power Pool 
Oct. 24, 2025 Filing”).  EEI is not addressing the merits of that proposal in these comments. 

--- PAGE 19 ---
 
 
 
 
19 
E. 
 The “Suspension” of Existing Generation to Serve New Large Loads Must 
Be Studied to Mitigate Reliability and Resource Adequacy Impacts. 
The ANOPR proposes that “an existing generating facility that seeks to enter a partial 
suspension to serve a new load at the same location must go through a system support resource 
(“SSR”)/reliability must run (“RMR”) type study.”39  DOE indicates that such study: 
must consider system conditions, including forecasted load growth, 
at least three years after the proposed suspension date.  The partial 
suspension can only proceed after any network upgrades needed to 
ensure reliability are placed into service.  Any such network 
upgrades shall be the responsibility of the generating facility.40 
Any diversion of existing generation away from the system to serve a large load can mimic a 
resource retirement, especially if the Commission were to mandate netting treatment for hybrid 
resources.  EEI strongly supports requiring that any planned diversion of existing generation be 
studied for transmission reliability prior to it becoming dedicated to serving a retail large load.  We 
also underscore that resource adequacy is a growing concern across the country; taking any 
generation that provides such service off the grid to serve a new large load raises significant 
reliability and affordability concerns.41  As such, the Commission must grapple with this reality 
and consider additional reforms to ensure that necessary incremental generation resources are 
 
39 See ANOPR at P 27.  
40 Id. 
41 Certain PJM-state governors have announced a proposal with data center industry support 
whereunder data centers qualify for the fast lane only if they create power equal to their expected use.  See 
Joint Proposal For CIFP LLA (Oct. 24, 2025), https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/committees-
groups/cifp-lla/2025/20251024/20251024-item-04a---data-center-coalition-and-governors-proposed-
package---updated.pdf (last visited Nov. 20, 2025). 
 

--- PAGE 20 ---
 
 
 
 
20 
available to address any resource adequacy concerns for utilities with the obligations to provide 
such service.42   
F. 
Any Final Rule Must Address the Risk of Speculative Projects, Including 
Through Study Deposits. 
The ANOPR asks the extent to which the “existing study deposits, readiness requirements, 
and withdrawal penalties can be adopted” and whether additional commitments or financial 
penalties would be appropriate.43   
EEI member companies agree that any large-load interconnection program or tariff adopted 
by the Commission must address speculative projects and provide a framework to allow 
transmission providers to more accurately forecast demand on their systems.  With a large load 
interconnection, a study will need to be performed.  Study deposits sufficient not only to cover the 
cost of the study but also to deter speculative study requests are appropriate.  We urge the 
Commission to avoid being overly prescriptive, given the substantial differences between states 
and regions, and to preserve contracting flexibility.  Large load customers are not uniform; their 
load characteristics may vary widely depending on the end-use and evolve over time.  Establishing 
requirements for the type of technical information required for large load customers to provide 
prior to initiating an interconnection request will improve infrastructure planning.   
 
42 See e.g., PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 190 FERC ¶ 61,084, at P 53 (2025) (accepting PJM’s 
proposal to “accelerate the interconnection of up to 50 additional projects” in order to “address concerns 
that the current state of its interconnection queue does not enable sufficient resources to interconnect to 
meet projected near-term resource adequacy needs.”); Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 192 FERC 
¶ 61,064, at P 1 (2025) (accepting  MISO’s “Expedited Resource Addition Study (ERAS) process” as a 
“framework for the expedited study of interconnection requests to address urgent resource adequacy and 
reliability needs in the near term.”). 
43 ANOPR at P 21. 

--- PAGE 21 ---
 
 
 
 
21 
As NERC has explained, the “electrical behavior of emerging large loads during both 
normal and abnormal grid conditions represents new challenges for planners and operators.”44  
Some of this uncertainty comes from the fact that large load customers “range widely in size[,]” 
what makes them “large” may vary depending on the “relative size of the load to the local system 
and overall interconnection” on a local or regional basis, and “the characteristics that inform their 
electrical behavior are not as predictable as conforming loads.”45  Any standardized procedures 
dealing with large load interconnection, including any efforts to address the costs of studying these 
customers, must be flexible enough to account for the evolving understanding of just what is 
necessary to integrate these customers to the grid.46  The need for accurate and complete 
information to perform studies, particularly if expedited, cannot be understated.  Any compressed 
study timelines should not commence until the transmission provider or owner has the information 
it needs.   
Large load interconnection procedures should not simply be a mirror image of generator 
interconnection procedures.  The Commission should recognize the history of generator 
interconnection processes across multiple regions, including SPP, MISO, and PJM that illustrate 
the consequences of designing procedures that can become saturated with speculative projects.  
Generator interconnection queues became unmanageable precisely because they permitted entry 
without strong readiness requirements which hindered transmission planning and delayed needed 
 
44 See NERC Large Load White Paper at 2. 
45 Id. at 2-3, 11.   
46 Cf. NERC, Indus. Recommendation:  Large Load Interconnection, Study, Commissioning, & 
Operations, at 1 (Sep. 9, 2025), https://www.nerc.com/globalassets/programs/bpsa/alerts/2025/nerc-alert-
level-2--large-loads.pdf. (finding that the “comparatively large size, unique end-use operational 
characteristics, unique facility design, and unique operational performance of Large Loads necessitate 
enhancements to interconnection processes, BPS planning studies and models”). 

--- PAGE 22 ---
 
 
 
 
22 
infrastructure.  Careful thought and consideration must be given to the way the services are similar 
and what is appropriate in the load context. 
III. 
THE COMMISSION SHOULD CONSIDER—AND SEEK TO AVOID— 
POTENTIAL JURISDICTIONAL STUMBLING BLOCKS  
DOE asks the Commission to assert jurisdiction over all large load interconnections to 
transmission facilities,47 acknowledging that “[h]istorically, the Commission has not exerted 
jurisdiction over load interconnections.”48  EEI fully supports the goal of the Administration, DOE, 
and the Commission to advance the fair and rapid interconnection of large loads.  These goals can 
be achieved without calling into question the way in which states and the Commission have 
traditionally regulated bundled retail service and without launching a cumbersome new regulatory 
effort that is likely to slow, not speed, progress.  States have successfully regulated retail 
interconnections for decades, including interconnections of large retail loads, and upsetting that 
paradigm here may have unintended consequences that could undermine the goals of both EEI 
members and the Commission regarding developing methods to ensure rapid and reliable 
connection of large loads.  EEI describes some of the jurisdictional concerns implicated by the 
ANOPR below with the aim of aiding the Commission in adopting a durable Final Rule that avoids 
unnecessary cost and delay.   
A. 
The Commission Should Not Disturb or Disrupt Bundled Retail Rates  
The Commission should make clear that bundled retail service (which includes an array of 
services, such as local distribution service and sales of power) is not at issue or under threat in this 
proceeding.  Such clarity is needed given the foundational jurisdictional questions DOE’s directive 
 
47 ANOPR at P 12.   
48 Sec’y of Energy’s letter re: the Interconnection of Large Loads Pursuant to the Sec’y’s Auth. 
under Section 403 of the DOE Organization Act & ANOPR, Docket No. RM26-4, at 1 (filed Oct. 27, 2025).   

--- PAGE 23 ---
 
 
 
 
23 
raises.  It is helpful to review the legal framework.  In the context of generator interconnections, 
the Commission has stated that “interconnection service” is an element of “transmission service,” 
and the Commission has authority under the Federal Power Act (“FPA”) to regulate interstate 
transmission.49  In the seminal case on the Commission’s “stand-alone” interconnection 
jurisdiction under FPA section 205, the Commission explained that: 
[w]hen a customer secures the interconnection component of 
transmission service separately from the delivery component, the 
customer must make a separate application under the pro forma 
tariff for the delivery component of transmission service unless, as 
is the case here, the generator intends to sell to a customer that 
already has transmission arrangements in place.50 
Similarly, in Order No. 2003, the Commission stated that interconnection service is a “component” 
or “element” of transmission service, explaining that it had:  
identified interconnection as an element of transmission service that 
is required to be provided under the OATT.  Thus, [FERC] may 
order generic interconnection terms and procedures pursuant to its 
authority to remedy undue discrimination and preferences under 
Sections 205 and 206 of the Federal Power Act.51 
As this illustrates, the Commission links FERC-jurisdictional interconnection service to FERC-
jurisdictional transmission service.52 
Given that this paradigm is what the Commission relies on to assert its interconnection 
jurisdiction under FPA sections 205 and 206, if a retail (load) customer takes FERC-jurisdictional 
 
49 Tenn. Power Co., 90 FERC ¶ 61,238, at 61,761 (2000). 
50 Id. (emphasis added).   
51 Standardization of Generator Interconnection Agreements and Procedures, Order No. 2003, 
FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,146, at P 20 (2003) (“Order No. 2003”) (emphasis added) (citation omitted), 
subsequent history omitted.   
52 Order No. 2003 sought to address concerns that existing procedures provided an unfair advantage 
“to utilities that own both transmission and generation facilities[,]” which the Commission remedied 
through inter alia standardized interconnection procedures that made no presumptions as to how that 
generation would ultimately be used.  See Order No. 2003, FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,146 at PP 11, 766-
773, 778-779.  There have been no findings of unfair treatment related to large load customers. 

--- PAGE 24 ---
 
 
 
 
24 
transmission service under an OATT, it would take load interconnection service under that same 
OATT as an element of such transmission service.  And therein lies the rub: many retail customers 
receive transmission service as part of retail services provided by their local utilities, under a state-
jurisdictional tariff/rate schedule.  Interconnection service for those retail customers is an element 
or component of the state-jurisdictional bundled transmission service and is based on state 
approved terms and conditions.  In addition, in most instances, the interconnection of end-use load 
requires the use of at least some local distribution facilities.  And, even if it does not, there is an 
element of local distribution service in any case, such that the state has some jurisdiction.53   
Traditionally, the transmission component of retail service has been taken under a state-
jurisdictional tariff,54 so the states have exercised jurisdiction over the interconnection of retail 
loads.  Indeed, many utilities have specific tariffs on file with their state regulators to address rates 
for retail loads that connect to the transmission system of a utility.55   
 
53 Order No. 888, FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,036 at 31,783.   
54 The Commission has jurisdiction over unbundled retail transmission, such that if a retail customer 
is unbundled, the customer must take transmission service under a FERC-jurisdictional tariff.  See Order 
No. 888, FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶31,036 at 31,689-90.  Many states have “unbundled” the purchase of 
delivery products from certain energy/capacity products, but the Commission has not asserted jurisdiction 
over the transmission component of the delivery product as to this type of unbundling.  This state action, 
although often called unbundling, has not proven sufficient for the Commission to assert jurisdiction and 
demand retail customers take FERC-jurisdictional OATT service directly.   
55 E.g., In Re Entergy Gulf States, Inc., No. 22356, 2001 WL 34070746 (Tex. PUC Oct. 2, 2001); In 
Re Aquila, Inc., Nos. 03S-539, C04-1060, 2004 WL 2021426 (Colo. PUC Sept. 3, 2004); Proceeding to Rev. 
Goals, Objectives & Strategies for Conservation Programs & to Consider Revisions to Efficiency Me. 
Program Plan, No. 2005-446, 2007 WL 4224197, at *1 (Me. PSC Nov. 27, 2007); In re Appl. of Cheyenne 
Light, Fuel & Power Co. d/b/a Black Hills Energy for A Gen. Rate Increase of $15,366,026 Per Annum & 
Auth. to Revise Its Power Cost Adjustment Mechanism, No. 2003-214-ER-22, 2022 WL 3155133, at *1 
(Wyo. PUC June 6, 2022); Pet. of PECO Energy Co. for Approval of Its Elec. Long-Term Infrastructure 
Improvement Plan & to Establish A Distrib. Sys. Improvement Charge for Its Elec. Operations, Nos. P-2015-
2471423, C-2015-2476587, 2017 WL 3872539, at *1 (Pa. PUC Aug. 7, 2017); In re Application of Duke 
Energy Ohio, Inc., for Appl. of A Distrib. Decoupling Rider., No. 11-5905-EL-RDR, 2012 WL 92089, at *1 
(Ohio PUC Jan. 5, 2012). 

--- PAGE 25 ---
 
 
 
 
25 
There is no indication in the ANOPR that the intent of the proposed large load reforms is 
to alter, unwind, or disrupt bundled service and rates for retail customers, as that would represent 
a significant jurisdictional and regulatory upheaval with profound implications.  And any assertion 
of Commission jurisdiction over large load interconnections cannot include authority to regulate 
generation and sales of power to those end-users.  The Commission should state plainly and clearly 
that disrupting retail service and associated retail rates is not on the table here. 
B. 
The Commission’s Authority Over Transmission May Not Automatically 
Extend to Large Load Interconnections.   
The ANOPR suggests that the Commission has the authority to regulate large load 
interconnections because they are a component of transmission service.  However, the courts have 
never addressed this issue, and the Commission has never exercised its jurisdiction over the 
interconnection of retail customers.56  There are multiple jurisdictional issues the Commission 
must be mindful of in evaluating its authority here.  
1. 
Section 201 of the FPA Ensures that Jurisdiction Only Extends to 
Matters Not Subject to Regulation by the States.    
Today, states regulate the interconnection of all retail customers.  This fact is an important 
consideration for the Commission.  The FPA strictly defines the Commission’s jurisdiction and 
makes clear through the savings clause in FPA Section 201(a) that “[f]ederal regulation” is “to 
extend only to those matters which are not subject to regulation by the States.”57  Thus, the most 
legally sound conclusion is that Congress intended that jurisdiction over retail load 
 
56 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 190 FERC ¶ 61,115 at P 72 (2025). 
57 16 U.S.C.A. § 824(a).  And, in no case does the Commission’s jurisdiction extend to local 
distribution.  FPA Section 201(b)(1) expressly states that the Commission “shall not have jurisdiction . . . 
over facilities used in local distribution.”  There is an argument that there is no interconnection of load 
without use of local distribution facilities, even if that is just the customer’s meter.  And under 16 U.S.C. § 
824(b), the Commission has jurisdiction over “transmission of electric energy,” while the states have 
jurisdiction over “any . . . sale of electric energy” other than “sale of electric energy at wholesale.” The 
Commission has no jurisdiction over sales of power to end user customers. 

--- PAGE 26 ---
 
 
 
 
26 
interconnections was to remain with the states when it promulgated the FPA.  The ANOPR 
suggests that the Supreme Court in New York v. FERC58 opened the door to the Commission’s 
taking jurisdiction over the interconnection of large loads to the transmission system.59  But that 
opening may be narrower than the ANOPR suggests and may have been closed by subsequent 
actions.    
In Order No. 888, the Commission found that in all cases retail service involves state 
jurisdiction even if no distribution facility is actually used.60  Thus, the Commission concluded 
that requiring the unbundling of retail transmission and generation would raise “difficult 
jurisdictional issues.”61  In reviewing the Commission’s decision, the Court agreed:  
[W]e can agree with FERC’s conclusion that Enron’s desired 
remedy “raises numerous difficult jurisdictional issues,” without 
deciding whether Enron’s ultimate position on those issues is 
correct.  The issues raised by New York concerning FERC’s 
jurisdiction over unbundled retail transmissions are themselves 
serious.  It is obvious that a federal order claiming jurisdiction over 
all retail transmissions would have even greater implications for the 
States’ regulation of retail sales—a state regulatory power 
recognized by the same statutory provision that authorizes FERC’s 
transmission jurisdiction.  See 16 U.S.C. § 824(b) (giving FERC 
jurisdiction over “transmission of electric energy,” but recognizing 
state jurisdiction over “any ... sale of electric energy” other than 
“sale of electric energy at wholesale”).62  
 
58 535 U.S. 1 (2002). 
59 ANOPR at PP 4-6. 
60 Order No. 888, FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,036 at 31,783 (providing that states “have jurisdiction 
in all circumstances over the service of delivering energy to end users.”). 
61 Id. at 31,699. 
62 New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. at 27-28 (citations omitted). 

--- PAGE 27 ---
 
 
 
 
27 
2. 
Section 212(h) of the FPA Further Limits the Commission’s Authority 
Over Transmission. 
In any case, if the authority to regulate retail transmission exists, this authority is limited, 
in states that have not required unbundling of retail transmission, by FPA section 212(h).  
Congress’s addition of section 212(h) to the FPA, many decades after section 201 was enacted, 
may prevent a large load or its agent from obtaining transmission service absent state approval.  
Section 212(h) of the FPA provides that: 
No order issued under this chapter shall be conditioned upon or 
require the transmission of electric energy: 
(1) directly to an ultimate consumer, or 
(2) to, or for the benefit of, an entity if such electric energy would 
be sold by such entity directly to an ultimate consumer, unless: 
(A) such entity is a Federal power marketing agency; the Tennessee 
Valley Authority; a State or any political subdivision of a State (or 
an agency, authority, or instrumentality of a State or a political 
subdivision); a corporation or association that has ever received a 
loan for the purposes of providing electric service from the 
Administrator of the Rural Electrification Administration under the 
Rural Electrification Act of 1936 [7 U.S.C. 901 et seq.]; a person 
having an obligation arising under State or local law (exclusive of 
an obligation arising solely from a contract entered into by such 
person) to provide electric service to the public; or any corporation 
or association which is wholly owned, directly or indirectly, by any 
one or more of the foregoing; and 
(B) such entity was providing electric service to such ultimate 
consumer on October 24, 1992, or would utilize transmission or 
distribution facilities that it owns or controls to deliver all such 
electric energy to such electric consumer. 
Nothing in this subsection shall affect any authority of any State or 
local government under State law concerning the transmission of 
electric energy directly to an ultimate consumer. 
In the final sentence of section 212(h), Congress prohibits the Commission from ordering retail 
transmission service against the wishes of a state, if the state prohibits wheeling to an ultimate 

--- PAGE 28 ---
 
 
 
 
28 
consumer.  The Commission recognized this sentence as a barrier in Order No. 888 to ordering a 
retail customer to take service under a FERC-jurisdictional OATT or another FERC tariff: 
we are mindful of the fact that we are precluded under section 212(h) 
from ordering or conditioning an order on a requirement to provide 
wheeling directly to an ultimate consumer or sham wholesale 
wheeling. . . . [W]e make clear that if a utility chooses, or a state 
lawfully requires, unbundled retail transmission service, such 
service should occur under this [Order No. 888 pro forma] tariff 
unless we specifically approve other terms.63 
3. 
The Major Questions Doctrine Must be Considered.  
As far back as New York v. FERC, decades before West Virginia v. EPA would become the 
law of the land, the Supreme Court implied that the statutory text of FPA section 201’s savings 
clause raises the major questions doctrine.64  And the Court has now announced and applied that 
doctrine.65  Reading the statute to take away authority from states that they have consistently 
applied, without a clear Congressional mandate to do so, may run afoul of the major questions 
doctrine and would be something the Commission must consider.   
C. 
In a Jurisdictional Dispute, a Court Could Find that Interconnection Service 
Is Separate from Transmission Service, and that Congress Has Conferred 
More Limited Authority with Respect to Interconnections.   
As noted above, the Commission has stated that it has jurisdiction over generator 
interconnection service as a component of transmission service, a notion that the ANOPR also 
 
63 Order No. 888, FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,036 at 31,689-90 (citation modified); see e.g., 
Rochester Gas & Elec. Corp., 82 FERC ¶ 61,250, 62,002 (1998) (“Rochester G&E need only provide such 
[retail transmission] service if the state requires Rochester G&E to offer unbundled transmission service or 
if Rochester G&E voluntarily chooses to do so.”). 
64 New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. at 28 (recognizing the “great[] implications” of the Commission 
asserting jurisdiction over retail sales).  
65 West Virginia v. EPA, 597 U.S. 697, 721 (2022) (holding that precedent teaches that there are 
extraordinary cases in which the history and the breadth of the authority that the agency has asserted, and 
the “economic and political significance” of that assertion, provide a “reason to hesitate before concluding 
that Congress” meant to confer such authority). 

--- PAGE 29 ---
 
 
 
 
29 
suggests.66  However, there is no specific language in the FPA that directly supports this claim.  
We raise this point to underscore for the Commission the need to be circumspect and clear with 
any assertion of jurisdiction in response to the ANOPR.   
While the FPA does discuss “interconnections,” it does so with limited authority to the 
Commission.  Specifically, section 210 (titled “Interconnection Authority”) provides the 
Commission can order the “physical connection” of a “cogeneration facility, any small power 
production facility, or the transmission facilities of any electric utility” to transmission facilities if 
and only if it makes various findings as to the necessity of that interconnection.67  Moreover, the 
Commission can only issue that order after providing notice to impacted parties and providing 
those parties a chance to put on evidence.68  Section 212 (“Orders requiring interconnection or 
wheeling”) further specifies and limits how this authority is to be used.  For example, section 212 
indicates that the Commission must issue a proposed transmission interconnection order ahead of 
time to allow the impacted parties to negotiate rates and terms for its application.  Section 212 also 
prohibits the Commission from issuing an order that is inconsistent with state laws governing 
“retail marketing areas” of utilities.69  
The specific discussion of Commission authority over “interconnection” in FPA sections 
210 and 212, but not sections 201, 205, and 206, may raise concerns for a court if the Commission’s 
interpretation of interconnection as an element of transmission service were challenged.  If the 
FPA is strictly construed, the fact that Congress enacted FPA sections 210 and 212 after sections 
201, 205, and 206, and well before Order No. 2003, could raise questions regarding the 
 
66 ANOPR at PP 14-16. 
67 16 U.S.C. § 824i(a) & (c). 
68 16 U.S.C. § 824i(b).  
69 16 U.S.C. § 824k (c)(1) & (g). 

--- PAGE 30 ---
 
 
 
 
30 
Commission’s authority in other landmark interconnection orders such as Order Nos. 2003, 2006, 
792, 845, and 2023.  No court has been asked to rule on the fundamental issue of whether Order 
No. 2003 and its progeny generally provided the Commission generator interconnection 
jurisdiction.70  And the concern over a stricter reading of Commission jurisdiction must be 
accounted for in light of the Court’s recent decision in Loper Bright.71 
Congress may be presumed to know that “interconnection” to transmission facilities and 
“transmission” of electricity are not only described with different words but are different services.  
And, when “Congress uses certain language in one part of a statute and different language in 
another, it is generally presumed that Congress acts intentionally.”72  Congress granted the 
Commission the authority to mandate stand-alone interconnection service in FPA section 210 and 
indicated that such service could be sought in connection with mandated transmission service 
under FPA sections 211 and 212.  Under a strict interpretation, neither would allow for the action 
suggested by the ANOPR.   
D. 
Using FPA Section 205’s “Practices Affecting” or “Affect or Relates” Clauses 
to Regulate a Service Subject to State Jurisdiction Could Create Legal Risk.  
The ANOPR, citing EPSA,73 asserts that “the interconnection of large loads to the 
transmission system falls under a practice directly affecting Commission-jurisdictional wholesale 
electricity rates”74 and that the “FPA has vested the Commission with exclusive authority to ensure 
 
70 Other jurisdictional issues raised about Order No. 2003 were decided in favor of the Commission 
in light of Chevron deference.  NARUC, 475 F.3d at 1279 (“FERC’s interpretations of the jurisdictional 
provisions of the Federal Power Act . . . enjoy Chevron deference.”).  
71 Loper Bright Enters. v. Raimondo, 603 U.S. 369 (2024). 
72 Nat’l Fed’n of Indep. Bus. v. Sebelius, 567 U.S. 519, 544, (2012); e.g., United States v. Peterson, 
394 F.3d 98, 107 (2d Cir. 2005) (“When Congress uses particular language in one section of a statute and 
different language in another, we presume its word choice was intentional.”). 
73 FERC v. Elec. Power Supply Ass’n 577 U.S. 260 (2016) (“EPSA”). 
74 ANOPR at P 14. 

--- PAGE 31 ---
 
 
 
 
31 
that wholesale rates are just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or preferentia1.”75  The 
“practice affecting” and/or “affect or relate” bases for expanding Commission jurisdiction 
unquestionably have their limits.76  Taken to the extreme,  every retail load affects wholesale power 
prices.  However, this line of reasoning would be squarely in conflict with the FPA.  As noted 
above, Congress left matters regulated by the states to the states.  The savings clause of FPA 
section 201 remains intact.  And thus, a court may find an argument that retail customers affect 
wholesale prices simply because they interconnect to the grid as a clear overreach by the 
Commission.77  Indeed, the Commission itself has expressed reluctance to use the “practice 
affecting” or “affect or relate” clauses arguments, is when it is asked to exercise jurisdiction over 
a service traditionally regulated by the states.78  
Moreover, we note that public utilities have FPA section 205 rights to propose their own 
tariffs in the first instance.  The Commission has only ever imposed a landmark remedy such as 
the type proposed by DOE if certain legal findings are made under FPA section 206.79  In each of 
 
75 Id. 
76 See e.g. EPSA, 577 U.S. at 280 (holding that “regulatory authority over retail sales” belongs to 
the states alone, and “FERC cannot take an action transgressing that limit no matter how direct, or dramatic, 
its impact on wholesale rates.”); Duke Power Co. v. FPC, 401 F.2d 930, 943 (D.C. Cir. 1968) (finding the 
FPA contains no “language authorizing the Commission to compel any particular interconnection or 
technique of coordination.”). 
77 See, e.g., EPSA, 577 U.S. at 280 (“Suppose, to take a far-fetched example, that the Commission 
issued a regulation compelling every consumer to buy a certain amount of electricity on the retail market.  
Such a rule would necessarily determine the load purchased on the wholesale market too, and thus would 
alter wholesale prices.  But even given that ineluctable consequence, the regulation would exceed FERC’s 
authority, as defined in § 824(b), because it specifies terms of sale at retail—which is a job for the States 
alone.”) (footnote omitted).). 
78 See PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 94 FERC ¶ 61,251, at 61,894 (2001) (finding that where it had 
no jurisdiction over sales for end use in the first place the Commission could not rely on other interpretative 
principles such as the “affect or relate” clause to assert jurisdiction.) 
79 See e.g Order No. 888, FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,036 at 31,635 (making findings pursuant to 
FPA 205 and 206), Order No. 2003, FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,146 at P 20 (same); Improvements to 
Generator Interconnection Procs. & Agreements, Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054, at P 37 (2023) 
 

--- PAGE 32 ---
 
 
 
 
32 
the Commission’s landmark orders, the Commission has made a finding of undue discrimination 
that warrants such a change.80  The ANOPR’s legal basis for jurisdiction set forth in Paragraphs 
16-19 does not provide the necessary evidence to make an undue discrimination or related finding 
that would act as a sufficient predicate under section 206 for the sweeping action contemplated in 
the ANOPR.   
IV. 
THE COMMISSION CAN ADVANCE REFORMS AND SPEED LARGE LOAD 
INTERCONNECTIONS WITHIN THE EXISTING JURISDICTIONAL 
PARADIGM.  
EEI agrees that the “unprecedented current and expected growth of large loads seeking to 
interconnect to the transmission system”81 has created an urgent and significant challenge.  EEI 
member companies are at the forefront of solving those very challenges today through large load 
tariffs and bilateral agreements.  State commissions and others, however, may have concerns that 
this goal will be quite difficult to achieve without harming other retail customers, particularly if 
such loads are provided undue preferences.  But there is a path forward, and ample opportunity for 
 
(acting “pursuant to FPA section 206”); Preventing Undue Discrimination & Preference in Transmission 
Serv., Order No. 890, FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,241 at P 13 (2007) (taking “action under FPA Section 
206”), subsequent history omitted; Transmission Planning & Cost Allocation by Transmission Owning & 
Operating Pub. Utils., Order No. 1000, FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,323 at P 1 (2011) (stating the 
Commission “acts under section 206 of the Federal Power Act” in adopting the rule), subsequent history 
omitted; Bldg. for the Future Through Elec. Reg’l Transmission Planning & Cost Allocation, Order No. 
1920, 187 FERC ¶ 61,068, at P 1 (2024) (stating the Commission “acts under section 206 of the Federal 
Power Act” in adopting the rule), subsequent history omitted. 
80 See e.g. Order No. 888, FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,036 at 31,635 (“In this Rule, the Commission 
seeks to remedy both existing and future undue discrimination in the industry and realize the significant 
customer benefits that will come with open access.”); Preventing Undue Discrimination & Preference in 
Transmission Serv., Order No. 890, FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,241, at P 25 (finding reforms are “necessary 
to reduce the potential for undue discrimination” in transmission service), subsequent history omitted; 
Transmission Planning & Cost Allocation by Transmission Owning & Operating Pub. Utils., Order No. 
1000, FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,323 at P 59 (“We therefore exercise our broad remedial authority today to 
ensure that rates are not unjust and unreasonable and to limit the remaining opportunities for undue 
discrimination.”), subsequent history omitted; Order No. 2003, FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,146 at P 20 
(“[T]he Commission may order generic interconnection terms and procedures pursuant to its authority to 
remedy undue discrimination and preferences . . . .”). 
81 See ANOPR at P 12.  

--- PAGE 33 ---
 
 
 
 
33 
the Commission to act clearly and effectively to help advance the interconnection of large load 
customers.   
EEI suggests that the Commission could issue a NOPR, in response to the ANOPR, that 
focuses on solutions that rest on sound jurisdictional footing.   
Recent proposed tariff amendments submitted by SPP illustrate one way that the 
interconnection of large load customers can be addressed and accelerated without wading into a 
jurisdictional morass.  SPP has proposed revisions to its tariff to create a specific process around 
High Impact Large Load (“HILL”) customers.82  HILL customers are subject to additional study 
requirements arising from the reliability challenges linked to large load.  But HILL customers can 
also obtain service from a unique category of generation identified through the High Impact Large 
Load Generation Assessment (“HILLGA”) process.83  In order to qualify as a HILLGA resource, 
a resource must meet various requirements showing they are close to “shovel ready”; and, they 
must be electrically proximate to the HILL they are intended to serve.  In exchange, HILLGA 
resources are subject to more limited study and other requirements because they are only allowed 
to serve the load of a single, nearby HILL, through a new service—“Load Limited Resource 
Interconnection Service” (“LLRIS”).84   
Under the SPP proposal, the LLRIS is a generator interconnection construct specifically 
designed to align new generation with the unique reliability, locational, and timing needs created 
by HILL customers, thereby ensuring that transmission system planning can incorporate large load 
additions without overwhelming existing transmission processes.  And, under the program, the 
 
82 Southwest Power Pool Oct. 24, 2025 Filing at 4-5. 
83 Id. at 5. 
84 Id.  

--- PAGE 34 ---
 
 
 
 
34 
Transmission Customer is the entity that is seeking transmission service for the new load.  As with 
most OATTs, to be a Transmission Customer, an entity must be an Eligible Customer.  SPP is not 
proposing to change the definition of Eligible Customer, and retail customers do not meet this 
eligibility provision.85  Thus, the entire program would involve the retail customer with HILL 
working hand-in-hand with their load serving entity (i.e., the Transmission Customer) so that the 
new service can be provided.86  EEI is expressing no view in these comments as to the specifics of 
the SPP HILL proposal.  Rather, EEI has identified this proposal as an illustration of an approach 
to facilitate bringing large load onto the transmission system faster and in a manner that does not 
involve jurisdictional upheavals.   
Another approach the Commission could take is to issue a Final Rule under which FERC-
jurisdictional transmission owners and providers could demonstrate that their FERC-jurisdictional 
tariffs governing transmission planning are addressing large load issues in a satisfactory manner, 
in concert with state processes, or that large load requests are not presenting issues in their state.  
If the Commission found such compliance filings adequate, it could take no further action as to 
those entities.  The Commission could also meaningfully move the needle through the issuance of 
a policy statement to the same effect.   
 
85 See Southwest Power Pool, Inc. Open Access Transmission Tariff, Definitions E (defining 
Eligible Customer) (for a retail customer to be an Eligible Customer they must be “taking unbundled 
transmission service pursuant to a state requirement that a Transmission Owner offer the transmission 
service, or pursuant to a voluntary offer of such service by a Transmission Owner, is an Eligible Customer 
under the Tariff.”).  
86 If a state commission in SPP chose to unbundle utility service in a manner that allows a retail 
customer to be an Eligible Customer, an entity with HILL presumably could take service directly.   

--- PAGE 35 ---
 
 
 
 
35 
V. 
SIGNIFICANT WORK IS BEING DONE TO BRING LARGE LOADS TO THE 
GRID, AND THE COMMISSION SHOULD MAKE SURE THOSE EFFORTS 
CONTINUE UNIMPEDED. 
The Commission will not be issuing a Final Rule on a blank slate.  Numerous long-term 
bilateral contracts have been entered into between utilities and large loads.  State tariffs have been 
drafted and approved to accommodate large retail loads.  Some ISO/RTOs are developing policies 
specific to wholesale load serving entities with new large loads.  EEI member companies strongly 
urge the Commission to avoid disruption of these developments. 
A. 
Existing State Processes Should Be Protected.  
The Commission should ensure that it does not disrupt what states, utilities, and large load 
customers already have achieved to bring online large loads.  In many cases, states and utilities 
already have put in place large load tariffs or rules that govern the interconnection of large loads 
or will have finished this task before a final rule could be implemented in this proceeding.  In 
particular, many states have created specialized large-load economic development tariffs designed 
to attract new industry while protecting existing retail customers from cost shifts.  These rules are 
tailored to the specific needs of their states and balance important local and state policy 
considerations.87  Implementing a set of federally mandated rules could undermine those efforts.  
Thus, the Commission should ensure that it does not disrupt these processes with a national 
process.   
Requiring customers that may have spent months hashing out bilateral contracts or large-
load retail tariffs to now pivot to a new set of national rules that may not work for a particular 
region or would slow down interconnection would be inconsistent with the ANOPR’s goal.  The 
 
87 State and local governments have an array of tools outside of the electricity sector to address 
issues facing large loads.   

--- PAGE 36 ---
 
 
 
 
36 
Commission has historically been prudent in rulemaking processes to respect and preserve existing 
arrangements.88  New customers should also be afforded the opportunity to opt-in to already in-
place state frameworks.89   
B. 
ISO/RTO Innovations Also Should Be Respected. 
Several ISO/RTOs have filed or are considering rules to address large loads.  For example, 
SPP has filed new rules and tariff provisions to govern aspects of the large load interconnection 
process that are supported by their members (both utilities and customers) and a Final Rule should 
not upset its efforts.  PJM also has an ongoing stakeholder process that has produced numerous 
promising proposals.  These approaches may offer options for public utilities to consider 
presenting to the Commission.  And the Commission should recognize that there must be 
variations, particularly given that profoundly different market models already exist.  The SPP 
approach has demonstrated how an ISO/RTO transmission provider and the Commission can play 
key roles in addressing the concerns of the ANOPR while recognizing that there is no need to alter 
jurisdiction over interconnection service to such loads.  The Commission should welcome and 
encourage these types of region-specific and utility-specific processes.  Accordingly, the 
Commission should ensure that any national procedures do not undermine the RTO and utility-
specific processes.  
In any Commission rulemaking effort, the amount of time needed for transition and 
implementation processes necessarily depends on the nature of the Final Rule.  The Commission 
 
88 Examples include allowing bundled requirements contracts to stay in effect; not requiring 
generators lacking interconnection agreements to enter into such agreements; compelling generators to take 
interconnection service under a new process only after a date certain; respecting existing transmission 
contracts when a transmission owner joins an ISO/RTO. 
89 Arguably, having a retail customer take all necessary services pursuant to the oversight a single 
jurisdictional body is more straightforward for all parties than having to deal with both a state commission 
and FERC.   

--- PAGE 37 ---
 
 
 
 
37 
should ensure an appropriate transition period to implement any new rule.  We can only provide 
realistic implementation feedback in response to a NOPR rather than an abbreviated ANOPR. 
VI. 
CONCLUSION 
EEI members share the Administration’s commitment to American energy dominance and 
remain on the forefront of accelerating the integration of large loads to advance our nation’s 
economic and national security interests while also ensuring the delivery of reliable and affordable 
energy to everyday Americans.  EEI appreciates the opportunity to comment and looks forward to 
working with the Commission on this national priority.   
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
      /s/ Rachael Marsh              
 
 
Rachael Marsh 
Kevin Huyler 
Edison Electric Institute 
701 Pennsylvania Ave., N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20004 
rmarsh@eei.org 
khuyler@eei.org 
 
November 21, 2025 
