--- PAGE 1 ---
1 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
BEFORE THE  
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
)  
Interconnection of Large Loads 
) 
Docket No. RM26-4-000  
to the Interstate Transmission System 
)  
COMMENTS OF EOLIAN L.P.  
ON THE ADVANCE NOTICE OF PROPOSED RULEMAKING 
Eolian L.P. (Eolian) respectfully submits comments in response to the Advance Notice of 
Proposed Rulemaking (ANOPR) on Ensuring the Timely and Orderly Interconnection of Large 
Loads.1  As discussed herein, Eolian is a developer of energy generation and load projects, 
including battery energy storage systems, that develops resources, among other purposes, to 
serve large loads.  Eolian strongly supports the Commission’s effort to ensure the timely and 
orderly interconnection of large loads to the transmission system.   
Eolian urges the Commission to act on the principles in the ANOPR as necessary to 
ensure just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or preferential Commission-
jurisdictional rates.  Eolian focuses on the critical importance of reforms to enable flexibility 
through curtailable (or “flexible”) load and curtailable and dispatchable (also “flexible”) hybrid 
resources.  Flexibility commitments2 from loads and hybrid resources can help to protect existing 
customers by avoiding the need for transmission system upgrades and allowing large loads to 
reduce the resource adequacy impacts of their interconnection and allow large loads—and the 
resources needed to serve them—to come online quickly without the need for extensive study or 
1 Ensuring the Timely and Orderly Interconnection of Large Loads, Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 23, 2025) (ANOPR).  
2 See Miles Farmer et al., How DOE’s Proposed Large Load Interconnection Process Could Unlock the Benefits of 
Load Flexibility, Nicholas Institute for Energy, Environment & Sustainability, Duke University, at 3-5 (2025), 
https://nicholasinstitute.duke.edu/sites/default/files/publications/how-does-proposed-large-load-interconnection-
process-could-unlock-benefits-load-flexibility.pdf (describing large load flexibility commitments and their value). 

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
 
network upgrades.  With the right federal legal framework, the grid can sustain large load growth 
that is critical to national economic and security interests while reducing the impact of such 
growth on transmission rates, resource adequacy challenges, and wholesale energy and capacity 
costs.     
The Commission has ample authority to correct these deficits, both via its jurisdiction 
over interstate transmission and its authority to ensure the justness and reasonableness of 
practices affecting jurisdictional rates (Section III).  Specifically, Eolian supports and provides 
further reasoning to justify the Commission’s assertion of jurisdiction over large load 
interconnection.  Eolian believes that such assertion is needed to remedy the ways in which 
existing rates have become unjust and unreasonable by failing to recognize the value that 
flexibility commitments and hybrid resources provide—and thus inhibiting much needed 
solutions to current cost and reliability challenges—and failing to prevent opportunities for 
undue discrimination in large loads’ and hybrid resources’ receipt of interconnection and 
transmission service.  In Section IV, Eolian offers additional rationale and evidence to support a 
series of reforms that would eliminate barriers to flexibility and provide commercial incentives 
to invest in sufficiently flexible load and hybrid resources to substantially reduce the impact of 
large loads on the transmission system and resource adequacy concerns.  To remedy these 
defects, Eolian identifies in Section VI the key elements of reforms to enable enforceable 
commitments by flexible loads and hybrids, which are also presented in list form in Attachment 
B.  Essential to unlocking this capability and thereby achieving speed-to-market for large loads 
while safeguarding affordability and reliability are: (1) creation of a standardized large load 
interconnection process, with a prioritized load interconnection process for flexible (i.e., 
curtailable, dispatchable) loads; (2) creation of a streamlined, single study, serial interconnection 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
 
process for hybrid facilities meeting particular eligibility requirements to enable such qualified 
hybrids the most rapid speed-to-market; (3) reform of transmission service requirements to 
enable flexible loads and hybrids to better reflect their use of the transmission system; (4) 
modification of the standardized generator interconnection process to enable differing study of 
generation facilities paired operationally to load; (5) modification of Commission-jurisdictional 
resource adequacy constructs, as necessary, to recognize the contributions of flexible loads and 
hybrids to resource adequacy; and (6) provision for an interconnection customer option to build.  
Section VII expands upon one of these key reforms, creation of a streamlined, single study, serial 
interconnection process (“streamlined study and interconnection process”) for hybrid facilities. 
The comments, and particularly the streamlined study and interconnection process, are supported 
by the affidavit of Andrew Levitt and Aniruddh Mohan of the Brattle Group and Ryan Quint and 
Sirisha Tanneeru of Elevate Consulting in Attachment A.    
Finally, Eolian notes that while these reforms are critically necessary and present a 
significant opportunity to meaningfully address many of the competitiveness, affordability, and 
reliability challenges the power system and broader economy currently face there is a substantial 
risk of disruption if the Commission’s entry into this new jurisdictional area is undertaken on too 
ambitious a timeline or with insufficiently ambitious of a scope.  Eolian urges the Commission to 
act in a timely but sensible timeframe for a rulemaking of this magnitude, importance, and 
complexity.  Moreover, the Commission should provide clear, advanced notice of a jurisdictional 
transition to enable an orderly transition to new rules and mitigate regulatory uncertainty for 
affected large loads (Section V).   

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
 
I. 
EOLIAN’S INTEREST IN THE RULEMAKING PROCEEDING 
 
Eolian develops energy generation and storage assets throughout the United States and 
has originated 27 GW of operating capacity to date.  Eolian and our partners have developed 
projects supporting large loads in multiple regions across the United States.  Should the 
Commission issue a final rule on large load interconnections, Eolian expects to participate in 
transmission providers’ processes developed in compliance with the final rule to develop 
generation, storage, and load resources.   
II. 
TERMINOLOGY 
For reform to be effective, the terms and concepts used in the ANOPR require further 
definition and specification.  In these comments Eolian uses the following terms, and urges the 
Commission to adopt definitions consistent with the concepts embodied in the following:  
• “Flexibility” means the use of flexible load or hybrid facilities; 
• “Flexible load” means loads that have made enforceable commitments to respond to 
curtailment instructions from the transmission provider or balancing authority, as 
applicable;   
• “Hybrid facility” means operationally-paired load and generation that is not limited to 
co-located load and generation pairs;   
• “Flexible hybrid” means a hybrid facility that has made enforceable commitments to 
respond to curtailment and dispatch instructions from the transmission provider or 
balancing authority, as applicable; and   
• “Expedited,” in the context of interconnection and interconnection studies, means 
either “streamlined” (that is, requiring less complexity), “prioritized” (that is, 
addressed earlier-in-time), or both. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
 
Note that a flexible hybrid that can be subject to a streamlined interconnection study process is a 
narrower class of flexible hybrid facilities, which includes configurations where new supporting 
generation is electrically close to a new large load, as discussed in Section VII.   
III. 
JURISDICTION  
 
a. The Commission has ample jurisdiction to pursue the ANOPR’s reforms 
The Commission may assert jurisdiction over the interconnection of large loads to the 
interstate transmission system.  The Federal Power Act vests the Commission with jurisdiction 
over “the transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce” and “over all facilities for such 
transmission or sale of electric energy.”3  The Commission’s jurisdiction over transmission does 
not depend on whether transmission service is part of a wholesale sale.4  Rather, all that matters 
is whether interconnection to the transmission system is a transmission service.  It plainly is.  
Indeed, the interconnection of large loads to the interstate transmission system is a transmission 
service in precisely the same way that the interconnection of generators to the transmission 
system is a transmission service, over which the Commission has long asserted jurisdiction.5   
 
3 16 U.S.C. 824(b). 
4 See New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1, 16-17 (2002) (“There is no language in the [FPA] limiting FERC’s 
transmission jurisdiction to the wholesale market.”). 
5 See Standardization of Generator Interconnection Agreements & Procs., Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103 
(2003), order on reh’g, Order No. 2003-A, 106 FERC ¶ 61,220, at P 698 (“interconnection is an essential element of 
[t]ransmission [s]ervice.”), order on reh’g, Order No. 2003-B, 109 FERC ¶ 61,287 (2004), order on reh’g, Order 
No. 2003-C, 111 FERC ¶ 61,401 (2005), aff’d sub nom. Nat’l Ass’n of Regul. Util. Comm’rs v. FERC, 475 F.3d 
1277 (D.C. Cir. 2007); Improvements to Generator Interconnection Procs. & Agreements, Order No. 2023, 184 
FERC ¶ 61,054, order on reh’g, 185 FERC ¶ 61,063 (2023), order on reh’g, Order No. 2023-A, 186 FERC ¶ 
61,199, errata notice, 188 FERC ¶ 61,134 (2024); see also PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. 190 FERC ¶ 61,115, at P 72 
(2025) (“[T]he Commission has exclusive jurisdiction over the provision of transmission service used to serve co-
location arrangements, again provided that transmission of electricity in interstate commerce.” (emphasis in 
original)); Nat’l Ass’n of Regul. Util. Comm’rs v. FERC, 475 F.3d 1277, 1280 (2007) (affirming Order No. 2003 and 
observing that “interconnections appear to be relationships between parties with respect to electricity flowing over 
facilities. . . . By establishing standard agreements [the Commission] has exercised its jurisdiction over the terms of 
those relationships.”); Pac. Gas & Elec. Co., 115 FERC ¶ 61,193, at P 36 (2006) (“[I]nterconnection is part and 
parcel of transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce, and thus interconnection service is part and parcel 
of jurisdictional transmission service.”); id. P 36 n.52 (citing Tenn. Power Co., 90 FERC ¶ 61,238, at 61,761, reh’g 
dismissed, 91 FERC ¶ 61,271 (2000)). 

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
 
The fourteen principles advanced by the ANOPR also all fall squarely within the 
Commission’s jurisdiction.  These principles mostly address aspects of the load interconnection 
process that the Commission has long regulated on the generator side, including: the 
interconnection study process,6 protection systems to govern injections into and withdrawals 
from the transmission system,7 allocation of the cost of network upgrades necessary to facilitate 
interconnection,8 and the interconnection customer’s option to build.9  Where the fourteen 
principles extend beyond interconnection itself, they address subjects that, equally clearly, fall 
within the Commission’s jurisdiction, including the provision of transmission service and 
ancillary services to large loads and hybrid resources,10 and measures to ensure reliability of the 
bulk power system.11 
The policies contemplated in the ANOPR can also steer clear of any interference with 
state authority over retail electricity sales.  The Commission has held that a Commission-
jurisdictional tariff may not dictate the terms of retail agreements between large loads and their 
load-serving entities (terms on service length, minimum “load and energy requirements for retail 
purchases,” etc.).12  Nothing in the ANOPR would require such an outcome.  To the contrary, the 
ANOPR focuses exclusively on the relationship between the transmission provider and the large 
load/interconnection customer, and the Commission can readily limit its action to requirements 
between those entities while achieving the critical policy goals of the ANOPR.  Nothing in the 
ANOPR speaks to the commercial relationship between the large load and the load-serving 
 
6 ANOPR at PP 21 & 24.  
7 Id. P 23. 
8 Id. P 25. 
9 Id. P 26. 
10 Id. PP 28–29.  
11 Id. PP 27 & 31. 
12 Tri-State Generation and Transmission Association, Inc., 193 FERC ¶ 61,070, at PP 49-50 (2025). 

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
 
entity.  Indeed, nothing in the ANOPR speaks directly to energy sales, much less the terms of 
retail sales. 
b. The Commission can avoid jurisdictional limits over distribution facilities, but should 
establish bright-line rules for which large loads are subject to the ANOPR’s policies 
The Commission can also assert jurisdiction over the interconnection of large loads to the 
transmission system as contemplated in the ANOPR without interfering with the jurisdiction 
“over facilities used in local distribution” that the Federal Power Act has reserved to the States.13  
In doing so, however, it is important that the Commission establish predictable, workable bright-
line rules for which large loads are subject to the policies contemplated by the ANOPR, and 
which are not.  
The ANOPR recognizes that the Commission has established a seven-factor test for 
distinguishing transmission facilities from distribution facilities and proposes that the 
Commission use this test to determine which large load interconnections are subject to its 
jurisdiction “to avoid even arguably affecting the States’ jurisdiction over . . . facilities used in 
local distribution.”14  Unfortunately, the seven-factor test is no model of clarity, as evidenced by 
the volume of litigation it has engendered.15  The ANOPR’s objective of facilitating timely 
interconnections of new large loads would be frustrated if the rule’s core jurisdictional boundary 
(distribution vs. transmission) is clouded by unanswered questions or protracted litigation about 
 
13 16 U.S.C. § 824(b)(1). 
14 ANOPR at P 18. 
15 See, e.g., Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 181 FERC 61,056 ¶ (2022), order on reh’g, 182 FERC ¶61,095 
(2023); Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 180 FERC ¶ 61,192 (2022); DTE Electric Company v. Midcontinent Independent 
System Operator, Inc., 180 FERC ¶ 61,222 (2022); Southern California Edison Co., 153 FERC ¶ 61,384 (2015); 
ISO New England Inc., 178 FERC ¶ 61,115, order on reh’g, 179 FERC 61,186 (2022), aff’d sub nom. Green 
Development, LLC v. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 77 F.4th 997 (D.C. Cir. 2023); Consumers Energy 
Co. v. Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc., 171 FERC ¶ 61,020, order on reh’g, 172 FERC ¶ 61,201 
(2020); Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 149 FERC ¶ 61,051 (2014); City of Pella, Iowa v. Midwest Independent Transmission 
System Operator, Inc., 134 FERC ¶ 61,081 (2011). 

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 
 
how the seven-factor test will apply.  So too would the ANOPR’s objective be frustrated by an 
overly conservative reading of its jurisdictional authority over large load interconnection, as 
would occur if federally-regulated interconnection service applied only to loads physically 
connecting to transmission facilities as defined by the seven-factor test.  Only one of the seven 
factors—“local distribution systems will be of reduced voltage”—clearly point toward 
designating the facilities interconnecting the type of large loads implicated by the ANOPR as 
transmission, while the other six would tend toward designation of large load interconnection 
facilities as distribution.16   
To prevent protracted litigation or an overly conservative reading of its authority from 
obstructing its policy goals, the Commission should establish a bright-line standard over which 
large loads are subject to a federally-regulated interconnection process instead of relying on the 
seven-factor test.  Eolian recommends the use of a straightforward capacity and voltage 
threshold.  For example, consistent with current engineering convention and Commission 
precedent,17 the Commission could establish that the interconnection of large loads (e.g., 20 
 
16 That is, large loads typically connect to high-voltage facilities that: (1) are in close proximity to the large load 
customer; (2) are primarily radial in nature; (3) have power flow in but rarely out; (4) do not serve to wheel power to 
another market; (5) are used for power consumption in a limited geographic area; and (6) have meters at the 
interface to measure flows into the system. See Promoting Wholesale Competition Through Open Access Non-
Discriminatory Transmission Services by Public Utilities; Recovery of Stranded Costs by Public Utilities and 
Transmitting Utilities, Order No. 888, 61 FR 21540, at 50 (May 10, 1996), FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,036 (1996) 
(cross-referenced at 75 FERC ¶ 61,080), order on reh’g, Order No. 888-A, 62 FR 12274 (Mar. 14, 1997), FERC 
Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,048 (cross-referenced at 78 FERC ¶ 61,220), order on reh’g, Order No. 888-B, 81 FERC ¶ 
61,248 (1997), order on reh’g, Order No. 888-C, 82 FERC ¶ 61,046 (1998), aff’d in relevant part sub nom. 
Transmission Access Pol’y Study Grp. v. FERC, 225 F.3d 667 (D.C. Cir. 2000), aff’d sub nom. N.Y. v. FERC, 535 
U.S. 1 (2002). 
17 See Order Approving Revisions to North American Electric Reliability Corporation Rules of Procedure and 
Requiring Compliance Filing, 187 FERC ¶ 61,196, at PP 39, 55 (2024) (approving NERC use of 20 MVA and 60 
kV thresholds as reasonable bright-line rules for inverter based resources that have a material impact on the reliable 
operation of the Bulk-Power System but are not connected to the distribution system); FERC Staff, Reliability 
Primer 20 (2020), https://www.ferc.gov/sites/default/files/2020-04/reliability-primer_1.pdf  (“The distribution 
system is generally comprised of sub-100kV lines”); FERC, Formula Rates in Electric Transmission Proceedings: 
Key Concepts and How to Participate, (last updated July 5, 2022), https://www.ferc.gov/formula-rates-electric-
transmission-proceedings-key-concepts-and-how-participate (“Transmission lines, transformers, substations and 
other equipment have voltages of 69 kilovolts . . . and above, while distribution lines typically operate at 35 kV or 
less”). 

--- PAGE 9 ---
9 
 
MW, as proposed by the ANOPR) to facilities with voltage greater than or equal to between 60-
100 kV would be subject to federal interconnection standards.  In its forthcoming Notice of 
Proposed Rulemaking, the Commission can take comment on the most appropriate nameplate 
capacity and interconnection voltage thresholds. 
Eolian recognizes the ANOPR’s first principle and supports the Commission treading 
carefully into new jurisdictional areas that have traditionally been regulated by states (as 
discussed more fully below).  To the extent that the Commission finds the bright line outlined 
above would veer too closely to state jurisdictional facilities, Eolian supports the Commission 
adopting a higher capacity and/or voltage threshold for designation of large loads subject to 
federal interconnection rules as an approach that would provide certainty without compromising 
the ANOPR’s policy goals.  For example, Eolian generally does not develop projects smaller 
than 75 MW connected at 69 kV, and most loads and hybrid facilities would exceed 100 MW 
and connect at least at 115 kV.   
The Commission can achieve needed clarity without overstepping its jurisdictional 
authority in either of two ways: (1) by more clearly defining the scope of interstate transmission 
(as compared to distribution) subject to the Commission’s jurisdiction, at least with respect to 
large-load interconnection, or (2) by establishing interconnection rules for a bright-line set of 
large loads pursuant to a combination of its jurisdiction over direct transmission interconnection 
and its “affecting” jurisdiction over certain distribution-connected loads.  Either pathway would 
result in the same bright line, easy-to-apply threshold for whether a large load is subject to 
Commission’s jurisdiction for purpose of interconnection. 
First, the Commission could clarify by rule its definition of jurisdictional transmission 
facilities in the context of large load and hybrid interconnections, and either modify or depart 

--- PAGE 10 ---
10 
 
from its application of the seven factor test.  The Federal Power Act does not define transmission 
facility or distribution facility.  Thus, the Commission must inevitably draw a line between the 
two.  Acknowledging that line drawing is never perfect,18 the Commission can revisit the 
appropriateness of its seven-factor test for this circumstance and instead adopt a bright line rule, 
such as the voltage/capacity cutoff proposed above.  In its forthcoming Notice of Proposed 
Rulemaking (NOPR), the Commission should recognize that this would constitute a change in its 
position and explain the appropriateness of such change, in this limited circumstance, given the 
importance of a bright-line standard for establishing an administrable, predictable load 
interconnection process.19  Such a change in policy is appropriate given that large loads pose 
different real-time operational reliability and resource adequacy challenges for the transmission 
system compared to gradual and geographically dispersed load growth.20   
Alternatively, the Commission could justify application of a bright-line test for which 
large loads would be subject to its rules based on a combination of its jurisdiction over 
transmission facilities and its authority to establish rules, regulations, and practices affecting 
transmission and transmission rates.21  Just as FERC has authority “over generation facilities to 
 
18 See American Public Gas Association v. FPC, 567 F.2d 1016, 1056 (D.C. Cir. 1977) (“An agency confronted with 
a complex task may rationally turn to simplicity in ground rules, and administrative convenience, at least where no 
fundamental injustice is wrought.” (quoting Gulf Oil Corp. v. Hickel, 435 F.2d 440, 446 (D.C. Cir. 1970))); Ashland 
Expl., Inc. v. FERC, 631 F.2d 817, 822 (D.C. Cir. 1980) (“It is familiar doctrine that reviewing courts should 
accommodate agency flexibility to permit adjustments based on exigencies of administration.” (citations omitted)); 
Gulf Oil Corp. v. Hickel, 435 F.2d at 446 (“Administrative agencies and officers have a primary task to administer 
broad policy mandates for the common good of our society, and they cannot be required to refine their rules to 
assure tailor-made equity for each of the complexities that may arise.  If they issue and interpret regulations which 
are rational and supportable in their general application, they cannot necessarily be charged with unreasonableness 
because in particular applications the regulations and general interpretations may grind with a rough edge.”)). 
19 See FCC v. Fox Television Stations, Inc., 556 U.S. 502, 515 (2009); Baltimore Gas & Elec. Co. v. FERC, 954 
F.3d 279, 286 (D.C. Cir. 2020). 
20 See e.g., Southwest Power Pool, Filing, Docket No. ER26-247-000, Transmittal Letter at 9-10 (filed Oct. 24, 
2025) (“The Challenges Presented by Large Loads”) (“Large loads may exhibit non-conforming load profiles, the 
ability to ramp rapidly [] and flutter, and sensitivity to power quality issues. The impact of these operational 
characteristics is magnified because large loads are also concentrated at a single site.”) 
21 16 U.S.C. §§ 824d(a), 824e(a). 

--- PAGE 11 ---
11 
 
the extent necessary to regulate interstate transmission,”22 so too does FERC have authority to 
prescribe rules for interconnections at certain voltage thresholds to the extent necessary to 
regulate interstate transmission.  Large loads interconnecting above a high voltage threshold will 
directly affect transmission system reliability, regardless of whether those loads connect directly 
to the transmission system or to the rare distribution facility operating at such voltage.23   
Importantly, were FERC to assert jurisdiction under this second option, it could establish 
a bright line for when a federal rather than state load interconnection process applies, without 
making a determination as to whether the facility to which the load is connecting is transmission 
or distribution.  This approach would eliminate the necessity of applying the seven-factor test as 
a preliminary step to determine whether a large load interconnection is Commission-
jurisdictional as a preliminary step to determine whether a large load interconnection is 
Commission-juris.  Subjecting large load interconnections to Commission rules on the basis that 
they directly affect jurisdictional rates would not necessarily mean that the relevant load is 
interconnecting to a transmission facility, because the bright line under such a theory would be 
based on the interconnection’s effects on jurisdictional rates, not the status of the facility.  
Accordingly, adopting this approach to FERC jurisdiction over large load interconnection would 
not alter the underlying rate treatment of any facilities that may currently be classified as 
distribution.  
Just as FERC is on solid jurisdictional grounds to “exercis[e] jurisdiction . . . over 
interconnections to a ‘distribution’ facility when the facility is included in a public utility’s 
Commission-filed OATT and the interconnection is for the purpose of facilitating a jurisdictional 
 
22 See Transmission Access Pol’y Study Grp. v. FERC, 225 F.3d 667, 683 (D.C. Cir. 2000). 
23 Supra n.20. The characteristics of large loads that pose operational reliability and resource adequacy concerns 
persist even if interconnected at lower voltage facilities, particularly given the potential for concentrated impact of 
large load in a localized area and rapid growth in the additions of large loads. 

--- PAGE 12 ---
12 
 
wholesale sale of electric energy,”24 FERC has authority to exercise jurisdiction over 
interconnections made to facilitate transmission service.  For the reasons described below, 
establishing rules for large load interconnection—and in particular hybrid facility 
interconnection—will significantly facilitate just and reasonable wholesale rates.  FERC’s 
“affecting” jurisdiction is sufficient to enable it to set bright-line rules in such circumstances.25   
This approach would be consistent with the Southwest Power Pool’s (SPP) recently High 
Impact Large Load (HILL) proposal.26  There, SPP proposes to establish specific interconnection 
procedures for HILLs on the basis that “a facility requiring a large amount of energy at a single 
site . . . can present operation challenges and reliability risks to the Transmission System.”27  
SPP proposes to define HILL as loads “either (1) 10 MW or more if connected to the 
Transmission System at a voltage level less than or equal to 69 kV; or (2) 50 MW or more if 
connected to the Transmission System at a voltage level greater than 69 kV.”28  SPP explains 
that this definition is necessary because, “[w]hile the NERC definition of the Bulk Electric 
System includes only transmission elements of 100 kV or higher, . . . a HILL connecting to 
transmission facilities at or below 69 kV will have similar impacts to the Transmission System as 
a HILL that is 50 MW, or larger, connecting to transmission facilities that are greater than 69 
kV.”29  While the Commission need not adopt these exact thresholds, it can take a similar 
approach for establishing bright-line rules for the interconnection of large loads in service of the 
policy objectives of the ANOPR and the need for reform as outlined below.  
 
24 Nat’l Ass’n of Regul. Util. Comm’rs v. FERC, 475 F.3d 1277, 1282 (D.C. Cir. 2007) (citations and quotations 
omitted). 
25 See NextEra Energy Res., LLC v. FERC, 118 F.4th 361, 368-69 (D.C. Cir. 2024) (finding FERC jurisdiction to 
establish rules regarding a circuit breaker at a generating facility because of the impacts of such circuit breaker on 
the transmission system). 
26 SPP, Filing, Docket No. ER26-247-000, Transmittal Letter at 12 (filed Oct. 24, 2025).  
27 Id. 
28 Id. at 12 & Proposed Tariff, Part I, Section 1 (Definitions H) (Definition of High Impact Large Load).  
29 Id. at 13. 

--- PAGE 13 ---
13 
 
It is important to note that this is a limited authority that does not involve FERC asserting 
jurisdiction over the distribution facilities per se.  Rather, under this approach, FERC would 
assert jurisdiction only over the terms and conditions of interconnection of large loads because 
such jurisdiction is necessary to ensure the justness and reasonableness of jurisdictional rates.30  
Such an approach is consistent with the Federal Power Act’s jurisdictional boundaries, just as 
FERC’s regulation of generator interconnection processes and wholesale electricity market rules 
does not constitute an impermissible exercise of jurisdiction “over facilities used for the 
generation of electric energy”31 and for the same reason FERC’s regulation of wholesale demand 
response “does not run afoul of § 824(b)’s proscription” against federal regulation of “the 
quantity or terms of retail sales.”32  
IV. 
NEED FOR REFORM 
 
Having asserted jurisdiction, FERC has substantial reason and evidence to establish 
uniform rules for large load interconnection.  The status quo has become unsustainable.  The 
speed, scope, and operational characteristics of large load additions mismatch with legacy 
systems in a way that risks rising costs, reliability challenges, and squandered economic 
development and national security opportunities.  Existing tariff provisions prevent the solutions 
needed to cut through this morass, and have therefore become unjust and unreasonable.  In 
addition, the same concerns of undue discrimination that motivated the Commission to adopt the 
pro forma open access transmission tariff and pro forma generator interconnection procedures 
 
30 See Nat’l Ass’n of Regul. Util. Comm’rs v. FERC, 475 F.3d 1277, 1282 (D.C. Cir. 2007) (concluding that FERC 
did not err “by not applying its seven-factor test . . . to determine whether a facility is an exempt local distribution 
facility or a covered transmission facility” because “FERC is exerting jurisdiction over transactions, based on the 
transactions’ satisfaction of the Act's jurisdictional criteria”)  
31 16 U.S.C. 824(b)(1). 
32 FERC v. Elec. Power Supply Ass’n, 577 U.S. 260, 281 (2016). 

--- PAGE 14 ---
14 
 
also apply in the large load interconnection context, and thus require adoption of pro forma large 
load interconnection procedures. 
a. Existing tariff provisions that prevent the recognition and facilitation of large load 
flexibility commitments have become unjust and unreasonable 
First, the large load interconnection process risks replicating the challenges that have 
plagued the generator interconnection process.  In generator interconnection processes, a 
dramatic increase in the number of interconnection requests and limited transmission capacity 
have caused interconnection queue backlogs, longer development timelines, and increased 
uncertainty regarding the cost and timing of interconnecting to the transmission system.33  The 
median generation project now takes roughly five years to enter commercial operation from the 
time it submits an interconnection request.34  Similar delays have begun to appear in the large 
load interconnection process, with reports that data centers face a seven year delay to 
interconnect to the Dominion system.35  These delays are already having an effect; SPP, for 
example, noted in a recent filing that large load interconnection requests in SPP peaked in 2022, 
potentially “due in part to SPP’s inability under current processes to study and interconnect large 
loads quickly enough to satisfy commercial needs.”36  The Department of Energy casts the 
potential for slow large load interconnection to constrain data center development in stark terms:  
 
33 Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054 at PP 37-38. 
34 Joseph Rand et al., Queued Up: 2024 Edition: Characteristics of Power Plants Seeking Transmission 
Interconnection as of the End of 2023, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, at 41 (Apr. 2024), available at 
https://emp.lbl.gov/sites/default/files/2024-04/Queued%20Up%202024%20Edition_R2.pdf. 
35 Josh Saul, Data Centers Face Seven-Year Wait for Dominion Power Hookups, BLOOMBERG (Aug. 29, 2024), 
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2024-08-29/data-centers-face-seven-year-wait-for-power-hookups-in-
virginia?sref=B2BBHw9t; see also Jeff St. John, One Way Data Centers Can Help the Grid? By Being Flexible, 
CANARY MEDIA (Feb. 27, 2025), https://www.canarymedia.com/articles/utilities/one-way-data-centers-can-help-the-
grid-by-being-flexible (reporting that, according to one utility executive, the backlog for connecting large data 
centers to the grid is now at least five years); Tom Kleckner, Large Loads Slow to Interconnect in ERCOT, RTO 
INSIDER (Oct. 27, 2025), https://www.rtoinsider.com/118099-ercot-stakeholders-talk-large-loads/ (noting that, of the 
130 GW of large load interconnection requests in ERCOT over the past 10 months, “only about 6.5 GW have been 
energized or approved for energization, with an additional 4.7 GW being studied.”). 
36 SPP, Filing, Transmittal Letter, Docket No. ER26-247-000, at 8 (filed Oct. 24, 2025). 

--- PAGE 15 ---
15 
 
“A failure to power the data centers needed to win the AI arms race or to build the grid 
infrastructure that ensures our energy independence could result in adversary nations shaping 
digital norms and controlling digital infrastructure, thereby jeopardizing U.S. economic and 
national security.”37Second, large load additions are requiring significant transmission system 
additions at a time of already rising transmission system costs.38  Specifically, proliferation of 
large load interconnection requests in the face of limited transmission system load serving 
capacity will require increasingly extensive network upgrades and local transmission additions to 
serve new loads without transmission system performance violations.39  Because local 
transmission and network upgrade costs identified in load interconnection processes are often 
recovered through existing transmission rates,40 existing customers are paying for the upgrades 
needed for large loads to be served.41  In addition to causing an unjust cost shift, this blunts price 
 
37 US Department of Energy, Resource Adequacy Report: Evaluating the Reliability and Security of the United 
States Electric Grid, at 1 (July 2025), https://www.energy.gov/sites/default/files/2025-
07/DOE%20Final%20EO%20Report%20%28FINAL%20JULY%207%29.pdf.  
38 See, e.g., U.S. Energy Information Administration, Utilities Continue to Increase Spending on the Electric 
Transmission System, (Mar. 26, 2021), https://www.eia.gov/todayinenergy/detail.php?id=47316 (finding that 
“[a]nnual spending by major U.S. electric utilities on the U.S. electric transmission system has increased from $9.1 
billion (2019 dollars) in 2000 to $40.0 billion in 2019.”); Claire Wayner et al., Mind the Regulatory Gap: How to 
Enhance Local Transmission Oversight, at 13 (Nov. 2024), https://rmi.org/insight/mind-the-regulatory-gap/ (finding 
that “the share of customer bills represented by transmission and distribution costs has been increasing steadily, 
from 10% in 2005 to 24% in 2020.”). 
39 Ryan Quint et al., Practical Guidance and Considerations for Large Load Interconnections, ELEVATE ENERGY 
CONSULTING & GRIDLAB, at 14 (May 2025), https://gridlab.org/portfolio-item/practical-guidance-and-
considerations-for-large-load-interconnections/ (“As more large loads seek connection at higher voltage levels, it 
can be assumed that the cost of network upgrades will also increase. This is because the cost of transformers, circuit 
breakers, switchgears, and other interconnecting network devices increases by voltage class. In addition, larger loads 
may cause BPS performance violations (thermal overloads, voltage issues, instability conditions, oscillations, or 
other risks) that must be mitigated to reliably serve these loads.”). 
40 See PJM, Answer, Transmittal Letter, Docket Nos. EL25-49-000, AD24-11-000, EL25-20-000, at 7 (Mar. 24, 
2025) (noting that solutions to needs identified in studies “to identify local upgrades needed to reliably 
accommodate [Network Loads] based on local transmission owner planning criteria” “typically take the form of 
Supplemental Projects” that “are cost allocated to the local Transmission Owner’s zone pursuant to individual 
Transmission Owner cost allocation frameworks.”). 
41 Mike Jacobs, Connection Costs: Loophole Costs Customers Over $4 Billion to Connect Data Centers to Power 
Grid, UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS, at 1 (Sept. 2025), https://www.ucs.org/sites/default/files/2025-
09/PJM%20Data%20Center%20Issue%20Brief%20-%20Sep%202025.pdf (“in 2024 alone, utilities in seven PJM 
states passed more than $4.3 billion in additional costs on to customers, with billions more still to come.”); Eliza 
Martin & Ari Peskoe, Extracting Profits from the Public: How Ratepayers Are Paying for Big Tech’s Power, 
 

--- PAGE 16 ---
16 
 
signals to encourage large loads to select sites that minimize transmission system costs.  What is 
more, the need for network upgrades, and more extensive network upgrades, further slows large 
load interconnection schedules because network upgrades often take several years to build.  The 
recent PJM Transition Cycle 2 (TC2) Phase 1 study results are a red flag for the region’s ability 
to add adequate amounts of new capacity quickly given standard planning and operational 
approaches: while some projects do have zero or minimal network upgrade costs, a significant 
amount of capacity, including from Reliability Resource Initiative projects, is facing costs of 
hundreds of dollars per kilowatt of capacity and network upgrade completion timelines of up to 
90 months.42  As discussed in Eolian’s comments on the June Resource Adequacy Technical 
Conference, Docket AD25-7, Eolian has copious experience with duplicative upgrades and 
lengthy upgrade timelines and has waited as long as 42 months for a network upgrade. 
Third, the rapid addition of large loads is also straining existing resource adequacy 
processes.  Reserve margins are already tight, and marginal capacity prices in both RTO and 
non-RTO regions have soared.43  Meanwhile, delays in the generator interconnection process 
prevent new supply from responding to high prices.44  If large loads are permitted to interconnect 
 
HAVARD LAW SCHOOL ENVIRONMENTAL & ENERGY LAW PROGRAM, at 15-16 (Mar. 2025), 
https://eelp.law.harvard.edu/wp-content/uploads/2025/03/Harvard-ELI-Extracting-Profits-from-the-Public.pdf.  
42 See PJM, Transition Cycle 2: New Service Requests System Impact Study Executive Summary Report, (Oct. 29, 
2025), https://www.pjm.com/pjmfiles/pub/planning/project-queues/Cluster-
Reports/TC2/TC2_PH1_Executive_Summary.htm.   
43 See, e.g., Travis Kavulla, Opening Statement of Travis Kavulla, Vice President of Regulatory Affairs, NRG 
Energy, Inc., Docket No. AD25-7-000, at 4 (filed June 4, 2025) (finding marginal capacity prices ranging from 
$118-466/MW across various RTOs and investor owned utility territories); see also Ethan Howland, PJM Capacity 
Prices Set Another Record with 22% Jump, UTILITY DIVE (July 23, 2025), https://www.utilitydive.com/news/pjm-
interconnection-capacity-auction-prices/753798/; Ethan Howland, MISO Summer Capacity Prices Jump to 
$666.50/MW-day as Power Supplies Shrink, Utility Dive (Apr. 29, 2025), available at 
https://www.utilitydive.com/news/miso-capacity-auction/746576/. 
44 See Joseph Rand et al., Queued Up: 2024 Edition: Characteristics of Power Plants Seeking Transmission 
Interconnection as of the End of 2023, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, at 34-35 (Apr. 2024), available at 
https://emp.lbl.gov/sites/default/files/2024-04/Queued%20Up%202024%20Edition_R2.pdf (showing persistently 
long timelines between interconnection requests and interconnection agreements in FERC-jurisdictional queues 
across the country).  

--- PAGE 17 ---
17 
 
faster than new supply can keep pace, the result will be reliability risks and increased costs for 
customers.45  Some regions may mitigate reliability challenges by requiring transmission 
customers to demonstrate that new load additions are matched by commensurate Network 
Resources.46  But while these regions may face reduced reliability impacts, their requirements, 
coupled with a failure to allow customers to demonstrate through curtailment or dispatch 
commitments that they have sufficient resources to cover the new loads, have prevented large 
load customers from being able to timely interconnect to the system.47  
All of these problems are made worse by the absence of standardized large load 
interconnection procedures.  Eolian has experience across jurisdictions with load interconnection 
as well as the proposed interconnection of hybrid resources.  In Eolian’s experience, existing 
interconnection processes for large loads and hybrid resources suffer from a lack of 
standardization—both because they differ markedly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and because 
they often rely on unwritten, non-transparent practices and afford unwarranted discretion to the 
local utility.  The absence of standardized, transparent procedures creates opportunities for undue 
discrimination in queue processing and transmission upgrade cost assignment as public utilities 
negotiate individual contracts with loads.  Further, the absence of standardized provisions to 
 
45 See, e.g., Governor Josh Shapiro and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Complaint, Docket No. EL25-49-000, 
at 1 (filed Dec. 30, 2024) (“Pennsylvania ratepayers face potentially the largest unjust wealth transfer in the history 
of U.S. energy markets”); see also id. at 23 (“[S]etting the price cap at Gross CONE would likely increase capacity 
prices for the 2026/2027 BRA by as much as 50% relative to prices under a Net CONE-based price cap, with no 
reasonable expectation of incremental market response sufficient to justify this cost. This would represent an 
unjustified wealth transfer as the incremental capacity and reliability benefit are shown to be minimal and come at 
cost orders of magnitude greater than any reasonable estimate of the VOLL.”). 
46 See, e.g., Charlton Hill, Overview of Network Integration Transmission Service Requirements, SPP, at 12 (Feb 9, 
2024), 
https://spp.org/Documents/71088/TWG%20Attachment%20AQ%20Focus%20Group%20Materials%2020240209.zi
p (taking the position that “the Network Customer must have enough Network Resources to serve their Network 
Load.”). 
47 See SPP, Filing, Transmittal Letter, Docket No. ER25-2430-000, at 11 (filed June 4, 2025) (noting that SPP has 
denied “many transmission customers[’]” load study requests because the transmission customers lacked sufficient 
designated resources.”). 

--- PAGE 18 ---
18 
 
deter or weed out speculative interconnection requests risks bogging down load interconnection 
study processes just as the nation has experienced with generator interconnection.   
Fortunately, a technically available solution could cut through this Gordian Knot: 
recognizing enforceable commitments from large load customers and hybrid facilities to curtail 
and dispatch when called upon, providing transmission service and balancing authority 
operations protocols that match these commitments, and appropriately rewarding these 
commitments with preferred treatment in the interconnection process.  With the right framework 
of federal requirements, integrating the interconnection processes for load and electrically close 
generation resources and providing for study and service based on only the withdrawal rights 
requested, as the ANOPR contemplates, could help to expedite study timelines, minimize the 
need for network upgrades, and provide an incentive and efficient path for large loads to bring 
their own generation, neutralizing effects on broader resource adequacy. 
It is obvious from basic engineering principles that generation located near load requires 
less transmission infrastructure to serve that load than generation located distant from load.  
Existing rules, however, do not allow developers to intentionally capture the benefits of 
proximity between load and generation through coordinated additions.  While planned generators 
may be studied in relation to load that already exists (and vice versa for planned loads), 
integrated study of planned large loads and resources developed exclusively to serve them is 
almost never permitted.  Eolian has explicitly requested integrated study of load and proximate 
generation in multiple jurisdictions, including generation developed near publicly-announced 
load developments as well as generation that Eolian (or its development partners) are developing 
near neighboring load that Eolian is also developing.  In Eolian’s experience, grid operators 
normally do not accommodate these requests either due to their understanding of state 

--- PAGE 19 ---
19 
 
jurisdictional rules and planning standards (thus demonstrating the need for clarity at the Federal 
level) or because of the commercial risk that either the load or the generation project may be 
delayed or cancelled.  While Eolian agrees that all development projects face risks to completion, 
ultimately cancellation of only one half of a coordinated load/generation development would 
introduce commercial pressure to develop the corresponding resource—thereby ultimately 
resolving itself in a functioning market or planning regime.  Grid operators should be focused on 
maintaining reliability during such transitory conditions, including by allowing load flexibility 
on the part of large loads. 
By contrast, Eolian has experienced multiple cases where a transmission provider’s 
refusal to perform an integrated study of load and generation has caused duplicative upgrade 
requirements that could have been avoided if load and generation had been considered together, 
which has impacted the business viability of both load and generation.  In addition, the absence 
of non-firm network transmission service has left large loads without the option to be served by 
the grid during normal conditions but to agree to curtail (in whole or in part) during times of 
transmission system or resource adequacy stress (including stress conditions that would be 
resolved by development of additional generation resources).  Similarly, existing interconnection 
processes lack an effective pathway to recognize and reward large loads that have made firm 
commitments to operate flexibly, and balancing authorities lack mechanisms to provide 
curtailment and dispatch instructions to transmission customers based on commitments that such 
customers have made as part of the interconnection process.  This causes balancing authorities to 
procure more capacity than would be necessary were large loads’ willingness to curtail in whole 
or in part accommodated, and drives up costs for wholesale electricity customers. 

--- PAGE 20 ---
20 
 
It is therefore clear that current tariff requirements are preventing adoption of the 
solutions needed to allow loads to timely connect, control rising transmission costs, and address 
the resource adequacy challenges that large load additions threaten to present.  Because 
interconnection processes for large load customers and hybrid facilities are demonstrably unjust 
and unreasonable, FERC must now exercise its jurisdiction over these processes to remedy the 
unjust and unreasonable rates. 
b. Existing requirements permit undue discrimination in the large load interconnection 
process and require adoption of pro forma large load interconnection procedures 
In addition, current interconnection and transmission service requirements allow 
opportunities for undue discrimination.  The pro forma generator interconnection procedures and 
pro forma OATT must be revised, and pro forma large load interconnection procedures adopted, 
to ensure that large loads seeking to meet their own capacity needs via hybrid arrangements with 
contracted generation are not subject to undue discrimination.   
In Order No. 2003, the Commission explained that “interconnection is a critical 
component of open access transmission service and thus is subject to the requirement that 
utilities offer comparable service under the [pro forma Open Access Transmission Tariff].”48  
The Commission found that it was appropriate to establish a standard set of generator 
interconnection procedures to “minimize opportunities for undue discrimination and expedite the 
development of new generation, while protecting reliability and ensuring that rates are just and 
reasonable.”49  Specifically, among other benefits, the Commission found that “standard 
interconnection procedures and a standard agreement” would “ (1) limit opportunities for 
Transmission Providers to favor their own generation, (2) facilitate market entry for generation 
 
48 Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103 at P 9 (citing Tennessee Power Co., 90 FERC ¶ 61,238 (2002)).  
49 Id. P 11. 

--- PAGE 21 ---
21 
 
competitors by reducing interconnection costs and time, and (3) encourage needed investment in 
generator and transmission infrastructure.”50  To the extent that large loads seek to bring their 
own generation resources to enable flexibility commitments and/or avoid resource adequacy 
issues, the same principles apply here.  That is, there is a need for standardized large load 
interconnection procedures and/or generator interconnection procedure revisions to “limit 
opportunities for Transmission Providers to favor their own generation” to serve the new large 
loads and otherwise facilitate generation competitor market entry and investment in generator 
and transmission infrastructure.  
Similarly, in Order No. 888 the Commission explained that “[n]on-discriminatory open 
access to transmission services is critical to the full development of competitive wholesale 
generation markets and the lower consumer prices achievable through such competition.”51  The 
Commission therefore concluded that “[d]enials of access (whether they are blatant or subtle), 
and the potential for future denials of access, require the Commission to revisit and reform its 
regulation of transmission in interstate commerce.”52  As when the Commission first issued 
Order No. 888, transmission providers’ control of transmission access, whether blatant or subtle, 
creates opportunities for undue discrimination by transmission providers to connecting large 
loads and/or the hybrid generators designated to serve them—including in the processing of large 
load interconnection requests and in the rates and terms through which the large loads agree to 
take service.  This too requires standardized provisions for providing transmission service to 
large loads in order to stamp out opportunities for undue discrimination.  
 
50 Id. P 12. 
51 Order No. 888, 61 FR 21540 at 50. 
52 Id. 

--- PAGE 22 ---
22 
 
V. 
TRANSITION TO COMMISSION JURISDICTION 
 
The ANOPR outlines a rulemaking process that will raise numerous novel and complex 
issues.  Resolving those issues carefully will inevitably take time, as will the compliance process, 
which typically entails years for major regulatory reforms.  Transmission providers may need 
time to adapt to federal requirements, and to expand the human and other resources necessary to 
expeditiously process rapidly growing queues of large load interconnection requests.  While 
completing the rulemaking process quickly is important, perhaps even more important is for the 
Commission to articulate a clear transition rule that prevents uncertainty from slowing down 
current market progress.  To avoid that outcome, the Commission should state as clearly as 
possible in any forthcoming NOPR (or before) that it intends to provide for a transition rule and 
how it will propose to handle large load interconnections that have begun but not completed an 
existing state-jurisdictional process at the time the relevant tariff provisions go into effect.  The 
Commission will need to answer two principal questions:  
(1) For loads that wish to complete the state-jurisdictional process, how far into that 
process will they need to have progressed before the relevant Commission-
jurisdictional tariff provisions go into effect in order to remain subject to the state-
jurisdictional process?  Is it enough to have submitted an application to the state-
jurisdictional utility for interconnection service or must they be under study or 
already have an interconnection agreement in place? 
(2) Will loads and hybrid resources that have begun the state-jurisdictional process be 
allowed to switch to the Commission-jurisdictional process if that is their preference? 
In the interest of avoiding a regulatory gap in which state regulators lack the authority to 
process and oversee the interconnection of loads but transmission providers have not yet filed, 

--- PAGE 23 ---
23 
 
received Commission approval, or established the capability to implement federally-regulated 
load interconnection processes, the Commission should clearly state that state regulators retain 
jurisdiction to continue to process new load interconnection requests until, at the earliest, an 
initial compliance filing by the relevant transmission provider is accepted by the Commission 
and the transmission provider’s new load interconnection process has become operative.  Any 
load interconnection customer that has commenced a state jurisdictional process consistent with 
such a rule should then have the option to continue to be processed pursuant to that process even 
after acceptance of the applicable compliance filing, in order to limit disruption to the orderly 
processing of large load interconnections. 
The Commission has legal authority to provide for such a jurisdictional transition period.  
As load interconnection is a matter that has been subject to either federal or state jurisdiction 
depending on the region, the Commission may appropriately define the point at which federal 
requirements over load interconnection are sufficiently defined and in effect so as to directly 
conflict with state jurisdictional requirements.53  The Commission has previously elected to 
decline to assert jurisdiction over matters that are arguably within the scope of its statutory 
authority, and has provided for periods of transition where the Commission announces a new 
jurisdictional line between federal and state authority.54    
 
53 See Miss. Power & Light Co. v. Miss. ex rel. Moore, 487 U.S. 354, 377 (1988) (“a state agency’s ‘efforts to 
regulate commerce must fall when they conflict with or interfere with federal authority over the same activity.’” 
(citation omitted)); Nantahala Power & Light Co. v. Thornburg, 476 U.S. 953, 953 (1986) (holding that a state 
could not use its retail-ratemaking authority to prevent recovery of a FERC-approved rate because to do so would 
“conflict[] with FERC’s orders.”); see also Oneok, Inc. v. Learjet, Inc., 575 U.S. 373, 388, (2015) (“Mississippi 
Power, however, is best read as a conflict pre-emption case, not a field pre-emption case.”); cf New York v. FERC, 
535 U.S. 1, 25, (2002) (“FERC chose not to assert such jurisdiction, but it did not hold itself powerless to claim 
jurisdiction. Indeed, FERC explicitly reserved decision on the jurisdictional issue . . . .”) 
54 See e.g., Participation of Distributed Energy Res. Aggregations in Markets Operated by Reg’l Transmission 
Organizations & Indep. Sys. Operators, Order No. 2222, 172 FERC ¶ 61,247, 62,661 at PP 101-103 (2020) (“while 
we are herein declining to exercise jurisdiction over the interconnections of distributed energy resources to 
distribution facilities for the purpose of participating in distributed energy resource aggregations, the Commission 
may revisit this policy decision in the future . . . . we recognize that such distributed energy resources may already 
 

--- PAGE 24 ---
24 
 
VI. 
KEY ELEMENTS OF A RULE TO ENABLE RAPID, AFFORDABLE 
INTERCONNECTION OF LARGE LOADS 
To achieve the significant promise of the ANOPR to enable large load to interconnect 
and enter into operation expeditiously, a series of reforms are necessary to create and incentivize 
pathways for large loads that reduce their use of existing transmission and generation capacity, 
because access to each are key bottlenecks to rapid, affordable development of large loads. 
While broader reforms may be warranted to address the multiple goals of the ANOPR, 
this comment focuses on the essential elements of a rule to eliminate barriers and appropriately 
incent the “flexible” loads and hybrids (i.e., curtailable, dispatchable) that reduce the need for 
additional transmission or generation capacity and therefore can be rapidly developed. 
This section develops key concepts and requirements that the Commission will need to 
establish to achieve that goal.  We recognize that these changes would need to be made to 
different sets of tariff provisions, that have traditionally been subject to separate regulatory 
requirements and Commission precedent.  Achieving the aims of the ANOPR, however, depends 
on reforming the components of load interconnection processes, generator interconnection 
processes, transmission service requirements, and Commission-jurisdictional resource adequacy 
constructs that must work together in order to enable flexible loads and hybrids to safely and 
 
have interconnected pursuant to procedures that were accepted by the Commission prior to the effective date of this 
final rule. Therefore, to minimize disruption to existing interconnection agreements for distributed energy resources, 
we are not requiring distributed energy resources that already interconnected under Commission-jurisdictional 
procedures to convert to state or local interconnection agreements.”); Advanced Energy Econ., 161 FERC ¶ 61,245 
at P 62 (2017) (recognizing that although the Commission granted retail authorities the ability to “opt-out” demand 
response resources from participation in wholesale markets in Orders No. 719 and 745, “the Commission was not 
obligated to do so” and did so as a matter of Commission discretion); id. at P 66 (although provision of such an opt-
out was not legally necessary, the Commission grandfathered Kentucky’s ability to continue to opt-out energy 
efficiency resources because it predated the Commission jurisdictional determination).; cf  Sw. Power Pool, Inc., 
190 FERC ¶ 61,169 at P 127 (2025) (acknowledging SPP’s commitment to work on state concerns regarding a 
transition from generator interconnection processes that reflect state procurement policy to the SPP-managed 
queue). 

--- PAGE 25 ---
25 
 
reliably operate while appropriately avoiding the expense and delay of unnecessary infrastructure 
investment.  Failure to truly enable flexible loads and provide them a means to internalize the 
benefits they provide to the system could otherwise result in the worst of all worlds: shifting 
large load interconnection to a standardized federal process that slows down progress by 
disrupting the potential for state innovation and failing to reduce the monumental cost of 
transmission expansion and capacity growth otherwise necessary to integrate large loads into the 
transmission system. 
As set forth in Attachment B, this comment envisions the following sets of tariff reforms 
would be required to implement the concepts discussed herein: 
• Creation of a standardized large load interconnection process, with a prioritized load 
interconnection process (i.e., “queue priority”) for flexible (i.e., curtailable, 
dispatchable) loads; 
  
• Creation of a streamlined, single study, serial interconnection process (“streamlined 
study and interconnection”) for hybrid facilities meeting particular eligibility 
requirements, to enable such qualified hybrids the most rapid speed-to-market. These 
reforms offer the most potent opportunity to realize the promise of the ANOPR, and are 
discussed at greater length in Section VII and Attachment A, Testimony of Mr. Levitt, 
Dr. Mohan, Dr. Quint, and Ms. Tanneeru; 
 
• Reforms to transmission service requirements to enable flexible loads and hybrids to 
better reflect their use of the transmission system; 
 
• Minor modifications to the standardized generator interconnection process to enable 
differing study of generation facilities paired operationally to load (but which do not meet 
the more particular eligibility criteria for study in the streamlined, single study, serial 
interconnection process for hybrid facilities);  
 
• Modifications to Commission-jurisdictional resource adequacy constructs, as necessary, 
to recognize the contributions of flexible loads and hybrids to resource adequacy; and 
 
• Provision of an option to build for interconnection customers that improves upon that 
currently afforded to generator interconnection customers. 
 
a. Rules to grant queue priority to curtailable loads and curtailable and dispatchable 
hybrid facilities 

--- PAGE 26 ---
26 
 
The ANOPR acknowledges the value that flexible loads and dispatchable hybrid 
resources can offer the grid.  The ANOPR proposes that hybrid resources be studied jointly and 
that those joint studies “minimize the need for costly network upgrades.”55  The ANOPR also 
proposes that, when an interconnecting resource commits to operate flexibly, and when such 
commitment is “sufficient for the system operator to integrate the facility into both operations 
and system planning,” the interconnecting study “should be expedited.”56 Expediting the study 
and interconnection of flexible hybrid resources can be accomplished through prioritizing studies 
and interconnection of those resources, streamlining the process of studying those resources, or 
both. 
To fulfill these concepts advanced in the ANOPR, the Commission should direct 
transmission providers to provide for a FERC-jurisdictional load interconnection process that 
grants queue priority to loads that make commitments to curtail, and hybrid facilities that make 
commitments to dispatch and curtail, such that (a) the load or hybrid resource reduces the 
system’s need for capacity or Network Resources, and/or (b) avoids the need for network 
upgrades.  A FERC-jurisdictional load interconnection process is central to providing incentive 
to flexible loads and hybrid facilities.  Speed-to-market is a key commercial inducement to 
incorporating flexibility into large load and hybrid facilities, but requires some degree of 
standardized rules affording queue priority in return for investment in flexibility.  At the same 
time, such flexibility must be in the form of meaningful commitments to result in reduced 
transmission system upgrades or avoided capacity procurement.  A FERC-jurisdictional load 
interconnection process can provide for such standardized rules around queue priority, while 
ensuring that flexibility commitments are appropriately defined, enforced, and recognized in 
 
55 ANOPR at P 20. 
56 Id. P 24. 

--- PAGE 27 ---
27 
 
other FERC-jurisdictional processes. In establishing rules to grant queue priority, the 
Commission must address, at minimum (i) What definition of a hybrid facility should apply for 
purpose of queue priority? (ii) what curtailment and dispatch commitments are required in order 
to qualify for priority? (iii) how will such commitments be enforced? and (iv) what does queue 
priority mean in practice, within the context of the load interconnection process that the 
Commission may establish, as well as any modifications to the generation interconnection 
process the Commission may require? 
(i) 
What definition of a hybrid facility should apply for purpose of queue priority? 
As the ANOPR appears to recognize, hybrid resources are key to achieving faster 
interconnection. As discussed below, a hybrid pairing of dispatchable, curtailable load and 
supply enable speed-to-market by enabling avoidance of network upgrades, centralized capacity 
procurements, or both, and potentially facilitating faster interconnection studies for both load and 
supply.  But to achieve that goal, the rules governing hybrid resource interconnections should be 
structured to enable the broadest possible market competition that achieves the relevant objective 
(avoiding network upgrades; centralized capacity procurement; faster study).   
First, the Commission should ensure that the hybrid resource category is technologically 
neutral, and specifically that it is open to storage resources as well as generators.  Storage 
resources can deploy more quickly than any other grid resource57 and are just as capable, if not 
more capable, of managing the impact of new large loads on the grid.  As explained further 
 
57 See Joseph Rand et al., Queued Up: 2024 Edition: Characteristics of Power Plants Seeking Transmission 
Interconnection As of the End of 2023, LAWRENCE BERKELEY NATIONAL LABORATORY, at 36, 40 (Apr. 2024), 
https://emp.lbl.gov/sites/default/files/2024-04/Queued%20Up%202024%20Edition_R2.pdf (finding that, on 
average, batteries are the fastest technology to study and to reach commercial operations after signing 
interconnection agreements). 

--- PAGE 28 ---
28 
 
below, when included in a hybrid resource, storage should be permitted to charge through a non-
firm or conditional firm transmission service.58 
Second, to foster competition, the rules governing hybrid resources should allow for the 
greatest possible diversity in business models and technical configurations.  So long as the 
hybrid resource is technically capable of fulfilling its dispatch commitments, it should not matter 
whether the generation/storage component of the hybrid resource is located in front of the meter, 
behind the meter, or at an electrically close point on the grid.  The position of the meter matters 
for purposes of retail service, of course.  But it should not matter for purposes of interconnection 
to the transmission system.  For example, the SPP proposes to allow a resource to be studied as 
serving a specific large load if it is located within two substations of the large load.59  Likewise, 
it should not matter whether distinct elements within the hybrid resources are developed, owned 
or operated by different entities.  So long as the entities that comprise the hybrid resource are 
able to fulfill their obligations, including enforceable flexibility (i.e., dispatchability and 
curtailability) commitments, collectively, it should not matter how they divide responsibility 
among themselves.  
 
58 In addition, consistent with Order No. 841, energy storage resources “should not be charged transmission charges 
when they are dispatched by an RTO/ISO to provide a service.”  Electric Storage Participation in Markets Operated 
by Regional Transmission Organizations and Independent System Operators, Order No. 841, 162 FERC ¶ 61,127, at 
P 293 (2018), order on reh’g, Order No. 841-A, 167 FERC ¶ 61,154 (2019), aff'd sub nom. Nat’l Ass’n of Regul. 
Util. Comm’rs v. FERC, 964 F.3d 1177 (D.C. Cir. 2020).  This same treatment should extend to dispatchable hybrid 
resources more generally.  
59 SPP, Filing, Docket No. ER26-247-000, Transmittal Letter at 26 & Proposed Tariff, Attachment BB, Section 
3.1.3(5)(a) (filed Oct. 24, 2025).  SPP also proposes to allow a generating facility to support multiple large loads if 
no more than five substations are involved and no more than two existing transmission line segments are used 
between each substation.  Id., Transmittal Letter at 27 & Proposed Tariff, Attachment BB, Section 3.1.3(5)(a). 

--- PAGE 29 ---
29 
 
(ii) 
What curtailment and dispatch commitments may qualify a load or hybrid facility 
for queue priority?  
We recommend that the Commission provide for queue priority to loads and hybrid 
facilities that have either made “capacity flexibility commitments” or “transmission flexibility 
commitments.” This matches the need for reform, which stems both from the challenge that 
rapidly integrating load creates with regard to Network Resource and capacity procurement, and 
from the fact that current interconnection processes for large loads and hybrid facilities trigger 
more network upgrades than necessary which raises costs for transmission customers and slows 
the interconnection process. 
The flexibility commitment necessary to avoid transmission network upgrades is different 
than the commitment necessary to avoid capacity procurement.  The former is a commitment to 
curtail/dispatch in response to potential overloads or exceedances on the transmission system, 
must be subject to the system operator’s control in real time as such conditions may arise in 
response to unexpected contingency occurrences, and must be of sufficient duration to warrant 
temporary or permanent avoidance of network upgrades.  The latter is a commitment to 
curtail/dispatch in response to potential capacity shortfalls, which may be known hours in 
advance or in the day-ahead time frame.  Because these two types of commitments are different, 
and may have different frequency or duration requirements in different locations, some resources 
may have the commercial or technical capability to make one type of commitment but not the 
other.  Entities that commit to flexible operations that avoid capacity procurements but cannot 
commit to flexible operations that avoid network upgrades should be allowed to do one but not 
the other.  But both offer significant system benefits.  As such, we recommend that FERC 
provide that resources that have made either type of commitment be eligible for queue priority in 

--- PAGE 30 ---
30 
 
the load interconnection process.  Resources that can make both commitments should be eligible 
for additional speed-to-power benefits through a streamlined interconnection study process, 
where they meet the conditions required for that process (see below). 
(iii) 
How will such commitments be enforced? 
The mechanism for enforcing a flexibility commitment differs depending on its nature. 
With regard to transmission flexibility commitments, the relevant curtailment and dispatch 
commitments are to the transmission provider.  These commitments can be enforced through the 
transmission service provided to the transmission customer that serves the load or hybrid facility.  
As explained further in subsection c below, to fulfill the need for reform, we recommend that 
Commission require transmission providers to offer non-firm and conditional-firm transmission 
service, where the terms of service would provide the transmission provider the right to curtail.  
In a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, the Commission can seek comment on whether curtailment 
and dispatch commitments should additionally be made by load and hybrid facilities directly to 
the transmission provider.60   
For capacity flexibility commitments, the commitment to curtail is made to the relevant 
balancing authority. Accordingly, the Commission should establish requirements for balancing 
authorities to recognize and enforce commitments to be curtailable/dispatchable in order to 
reduce resource adequacy needs.  Where the transmission provider and the balancing authority 
are the same entity, the interconnection customer’s commitment to curtail/dispatch in response to 
resource adequacy events could be incorporated into the Interconnection Agreement.  However, 
 
60 We note that to the extent curtailment and dispatch commitments are made by the transmission customer to the 
transmission provider, the entity making the commitment could be a load serving entity, which would be distinct 
from the large load itself. A separate commitment from the large load to the load serving entity may be appropriate 
in such circumstances, but whether and how to regulate such a commitment would be left to the applicable state 
regulator or local authority.  

--- PAGE 31 ---
31 
 
as a default, the Commission should provide for a requirement on the balancing authority that is 
separate from the pro forma Interconnection Procedures and Agreement that it may develop 
through this rulemaking process.  The Commission should also promulgate rules to ensure that 
loads and hybrid facilities that have made Capacity Flexibility Commitments are able to take 
transmission service without securing commensurate Network Resources, and to ensure that the 
flexibility commitments of large loads and hybrid resources can be employed to reduce capacity 
procurements in those regions where capacity is procured through Commission-jurisdictional 
tariffs. 
(iv) 
What does queue priority mean in practice? 
How the transmission provider may prioritize the interconnection requests of loads and 
hybrid facilities that have made flexibility commitments depends on the overall structure FERC 
adopts.  In a serial study process, FERC could require the transmission provider to grant priority 
by pushing load and hybrid facilities meeting a particular threshold level of flexibility to the 
front of the line.  FERC could employ a strict requirement, through which such priority is not 
granted unless the load or hybrid facility can fully curtail or offset its entire load through 
dispatch of the generation or storage resource portion of the hybrid facility.  Alternatively, to the 
extent the serial process entails a window to submit requests prior to commencing study, the 
Commission could provide for priority order to be granted based on the extent of the curtailment 
and/or dispatchability commitment, such that a resource with partial curtailment capability gets 
priority over a resource with no such capability.  Should the Commission opt for a cluster-based 
load interconnection process, the Commission could require that the transmission provider 
provide for a cluster formation window that distinguishes between standard load interconnection 
requests and curtailable and dispatchable hybrid facilities. Under this approach, curtailable and 

--- PAGE 32 ---
32 
 
dispatchable hybrid facilities would be processed first as a priority cluster, before the 
transmission provider addresses the non-flexible standard load interconnection requests, which 
would be given lower queue priority.  
In providing these illustrative examples of how queue priority could be given to flexible 
loads and hybrid facilities under established serial and cluster study processes, these comments 
do not imply an endorsement of these established processes.  To the contrary, Eolian supports 
more ambitious approaches to reform that would use FERC’s assertion of jurisdiction over load 
interconnection as an opportunity to rethink broken paradigms that will only come under 
increased strain as more large loads seek to interconnect to the system.  For example, NRG 
recommends that the Commission “mandate the use of open seasons to expedite large load 
interconnections and efficiently allocate interconnection capacity.”61  Such a process could 
likewise be designed to prioritize curtailable loads and curtailable and dispatchable hybrid 
facilities.  For example, system “headroom” to be auctioned off could be defined in a manner 
recognizing that curtailable loads and hybrid facilities need less headroom to serve equivalent 
demand.  A system geared toward “getting the most megawatts online at the lowest overall cost” 
would naturally reward flexible loads and hybrid facilities, so long as it is paired with 
appropriate study processes and non-firm transmission service (discussed below).  Alternatively, 
the Commission may also consider an approach that integrates transmission planning with load 
interconnection and generation interconnection, similar to how SPP is proposing to integrate 
transmission planning and generation interconnection through its Consolidated Planning 
Process.62 
 
61 NRG Energy, Inc., Initial Comments at 3. 
62 See SPP Transmittal Letter, FERC Docket No. ER26-414 (Nov. 3, 2025). 

--- PAGE 33 ---
33 
 
b. Rules requiring a streamlined study process to allow flexibility and 
dispatchability to avoid network upgrades 
Load interconnection queue priority, however, must not be the only way in which the 
Commission expedites the interconnection of curtailable loads, and curtailable and dispatchable 
hybrid facilities.  As demonstrated in Testimony of Mr. Levitt, Dr. Mohan, Dr. Quint, and Ms. 
Tanneeru, the most powerful way that the ANOPR can accelerate speed-to-power while also 
protecting existing transmission and wholesale electricity customers is to allow large loads and 
hybrid resources to use their flexibility to avoid, minimize or defer the need for new network 
upgrades, which are both a major source of delay and a cost driver.  To achieve this objective, 
the Commission should require each transmission provider to develop a load interconnection 
study process that incorporates the interconnection customer’s commitment to curtail/dispatch in 
response to specific transmission system needs and allows for that commitment to reduce or 
eliminate the need for new network upgrades.  As a consequence of making this commitment, 
the large load or hybrid resource would agree to be subject to the system operator’s control for 
those curtailment/dispatch periods, and would be required to demonstrate its technical capability 
to effectuate the necessary curtailment/dispatch.  
We propose establishment of a serial streamlined study of load and hybrid facilities as 
discussed in detail in Section VII, which can fulfill this need.  We recommend that the 
Commission require this proposed study process as part of pro forma Hybrid Facility 
Interconnection Procedures. 

--- PAGE 34 ---
34 
 
c. Non-firm injection and withdrawal rights will be necessary to realize the 
economic benefits of hybrid resources 
The ANOPR presents the example of a hybrid resource consisting of a 600 MW 
generator and a 500 MW load.  The ANOPR states that, in such a scenario, the hybrid resource 
may elect to receive 100 MW of injection rights and no withdrawal rights, while also noting that 
“Any facility should be able to seek additional rights through a separate interconnection 
request.”63  To address this scenario, the Commission should direct transmission providers to 
offer non-firm or conditional firm transmission service to hybrid resources that allow them to 
inject and withdraw up to their full potential, subject to specified system conditions and their 
flexibility commitments.   
Without access to non-firm or conditional firm service, much of the economic value of 
the hybrid resource model will be lost.  Many hybrid resources would be unwilling to 
interconnect with no withdrawal rights at all, because the load would bear the risk of generator 
outages (especially risky for facilities lacking many smaller, redundant units), which can be 
lengthy and/or unexpected, and, in the case of data centers, exhaust the ability of backup 
generation to compensate.  Providing hybrid resources access to non-firm or conditional firm 
withdrawal service would therefore go a long way toward de-risking the hybrid resource 
business model.  Further, without access to non-firm or conditional firm withdrawal service, any 
standalone storage component of a hybrid resource would be unable to charge, which could have 
the effect of excluding from the market the most rapid-to-deploy source of capacity for 
integrating large loads. 
 
63 ANOPR at P 22 & n. 39. 

--- PAGE 35 ---
35 
 
Access to non-firm or conditional firm injection service for the generator component of a 
hybrid resource would also provide substantial economic benefits.  Most obviously, at times 
when the load component is operating at a low load factor, allowing the generator to supply the 
broader market on a non-firm basis will benefit other customers on the system while providing 
an important revenue stream to the hybrid facility that may undergird the investments that enable 
its flexibility commitments.  Further, if the generator component of a hybrid resource is unable to 
inject its unneeded generation, then it may be effectively forced into a load-following role, which 
is extremely difficult to sustain indefinitely for individual generators, “even for the most flexible 
on-site generation, reducing the commercial workability of the hybrid resource model.”64   
d. Rules requiring provision of generator option to build 
In addition to the above rules to recognize the value that flexible loads and dispatchable 
hybrid resources can offer the grid and facilitate their development, Eolian supports the 
ANOPR’s recommendation that interconnection customers be afforded the option to build.65  
The option to build a transmission provider’s interconnection facilities and network upgrades has 
been available to generator interconnection customers in the pro forma LGIA since Order No. 
2003, and as later enhanced in Order No. 845.  Large load interconnection customers will benefit 
from the option to build for all the reasons the Commission determined it was just and reasonable 
to provide this option in the generator interconnection process: it “will benefit the 
interconnection process by providing interconnection customers more control and certainty 
during the design and construction phases of the interconnection process.”66  The option enables 
 
64 See Eric G. Gimon, Dodging The Firm Fixation For Data Centers And The Grid, ENERGY INNOVATION, at 12 
(Nov. 2025), https://energyinnovation.org/wp-content/uploads/Dodging-the-Firm-Fixation-for-Data-Centers-and-
the-Grid.pdf.  
65 ANOPR at P 26. 
66 Reform of Generator Interconnection Procs. & Agreements, Order No. 845, 163 FERC ¶ 61,043, at P 85 (2018), 
order on reh’g, Order No. 845-A, 166 FERC ¶ 61,137, order on reh’g, Order No. 845-B, 168 FERC ¶ 61,092 
(2019). 

--- PAGE 36 ---
36 
 
an interconnection customer to potentially build the facilities in a more cost-effective manner, 
leading to lower cost interconnection.   
The Commission should build upon its experience in the generator interconnection 
process by further reducing barriers to use of the option to build.  Currently rules for the 
generator option to build are heterogenous and in practice this option is hard to access and highly 
disincentivized, despite the ability to save considerable money, time, or both.  A greater degree 
of standardization of the option will eliminate opportunities for undue discrimination in access, 
and better realize its significant benefits.  For example, Eolian has experienced receiving a quote 
for a specific project from an Engineering, Procurement, and Construction developer and then 
being quoted significantly more for the utility to perform the same project. In addition, developer 
option to build is effectively limited to only those upgrades which require no outage 
coordination, sharply limiting the scope of its availability. 
Given the ANOPR's emphasis on speed and efficiency, we encourage FERC to consider 
rules that would bring greater consistency and transparency to this option by requiring cost 
reporting and auditability of costs and the ability for developers to bid out the same scope—
paying more for speed if desired. 
VII. 
STREAMLINED, SINGLE STUDY, SERIAL INTERCONNECTION PROCESS 
FOR HYBRID FACILITIES 
So long as transmission system capacity remains constrained, the rate-limiting step for 
integration of large loads will remain the many years-long process of constructing network 
upgrades.67  Certain configurations of hybrid facilities, however, can make such significant 
 
67 Although, as noted above, in regions that require transmission customers to demonstrate that a new load will not 
threaten resource adequacy or that it has secured commensurate Network Resources before being permitted to 
interconnect, interconnection of new generation will also increasingly rate-limit the interconnection of large loads.  
See supra n.47. 

--- PAGE 37 ---
37 
 
flexibility commitments as to enable greatly reduced study times, and are capable of being 
developed much more rapidly due to their limited impacts on the transmission system.  Where 
such configurations are commercially feasible, the Commission should incent these 
arrangements by providing them a separate streamlined, single study, serial interconnection 
process.  Such a streamlined study and interconnection process would enable, to a greater 
degree than any other reform, near-term, rapid development and integration of eligible hybrid 
facilities.  
As set forth in Attachment A, serial streamlined study of load and hybrid facilities is 
possible where the facility nominates operating limits (in MW) for aggregate net injections and 
withdrawals of power,68 installs necessary control equipment to ensure that the facility is capable 
of following the dispatch controls of the transmission system operator and balancing authority 
and respecting operating limits at all times, and is capable at any time of complete self-supply or 
otherwise curtailing the load such that the facility can take transmission service on a non-firm 
basis.69  Where these conditions are met, the facility can be studied without carrying out 
generator and load deliverability analysis.70  As Levitt et al. explain, “[b]ecause the streamlined 
process avoids major network upgrades (if necessary, by limiting both net injections and net 
withdrawals as low as zero megawatts), each transmission owner can independently conduct 
streamlined hybrid interconnection processes (even within an ISO/RTO region) in serial fashion 
in as little as 60-90 days .”71  Importantly, these studies can be led by individual transmission 
providers within an RTO.  In addition, “avoiding regional upgrades reduces interactions among 
 
68 For large loads that are not hybrid, the operating limits would entail withdrawals only. 
69 See Attachment A at 14 (describing operational obligations) and 14-17 (describing studies and mitigations, as well 
as processing of studies). 
70 Studies for such a facility include (i) steady-state power flow (thermal and voltage) analysis, (ii) stability analysis, 
(iii) short circuit and fault duty analysis, and (iv) electromagnetic transient (EMT) stability screening and detailed 
EMT impact studies where needed).  See id. at 15. 
71 Id. at 10. 

--- PAGE 38 ---
38 
 
transmission owners, allowing each transmission owner to conduct streamlined hybrid facilities 
studies independently . . . which increases the number of such studies that can be undertaken 
simultaneously in a region.”72  Accordingly, “[a]n ISO/RTO with two dozen transmission 
owners could therefore process up to 96 sets of hybrid facility interconnection requests over the 
course of a year, with four 90-day study cycles a year and 24 of them running in parallel at any 
one time.”73  FERC should require transmission providers to offer a serial streamlined study and 
interconnection process to loads and hybrid facilities that meet these requirements.  
The streamlined study process specifies the static operating limits below which the load 
or hybrid facility can be integrated into the system without triggering network upgrades.74  
However, developers may desire network upgrades in order to obtain a higher operating limit 
and/or reduce expected curtailment.  FERC should require that in such cases, the facility first 
have the option to avoid the critical impact through lower operating limits.75  If the developer 
wishes to raise the operating limit, however, the facility should be transferred into the applicable 
standard generation or load interconnection process.  To the extent a potential need for network 
upgrades is triggered by the injection rights requested by a hybrid facility, FERC should require 
that the facility be studied through the applicable generation interconnection process.  To the 
extent the need is triggered by the facility’s withdrawal rights, the impacts can be studied 
through the standard load interconnection process.  In such cases, it is still possible to study the 
facility’s generation components in a serial, streamlined fashion outside of the standard 
generation interconnection queue, but energization of the generation component can be 
conditional on completion of the applicable load interconnection process.  And in each case, 
 
72 Id. at 16. 
73 Id. at 10 (internal citation omitted). 
74 Id. at 12-13. 
75 Id. at 14-16. 

--- PAGE 39 ---
39 
 
where the load and electrically close supply components of the hybrid facility are commercially 
dependent upon one another, the load interconnection process should account for the associated 
generation, and the generation interconnection process should include the load.  Accordingly, 
transmission providers should be required to amend their large generator interconnection 
procedures and associated agreements to provide for such a streamlined study process where 
generation at the same or electrically close point of interconnection to a large load can be studied 
without requiring deliverability analysis. 
Flexibility commitments can be made by loads and hybrid facilities on a permanent or 
temporary basis (i.e., until network upgrades have been constructed), and FERC should require 
transmission providers to allow for both pathways.  Temporary commitments are valuable 
because they provide the ability of the load or hybrid facility to integrate into the system while 
potential network upgrades are analyzed and constructed.  Temporary commitments can be 
facilitated by allowing a load or hybrid facility to convert from non-firm to firm service by 
requesting a full load interconnection study through the standard load interconnection study 
processes, and/or to request study of the generation components through the standard generation 
interconnection process.76  Where network upgrades are identified as necessary in order to 
facilitate a conversion in service, the facility’s service conversion may take place once the 
network upgrades are constructed.   
Importantly, however, FERC should also require that transmission providers allow a 
pathway to permanent non-firm operation that does not require a subsequent service conversion.  
Requiring subsequent service conversion greatly diminishes the commercial value of pursuing 
flexibility arrangements.  For example, a hybrid facility consisting of a co-located battery or gas-
 
76 Id. at 4.  

--- PAGE 40 ---
40 
 
fired power plant requires the developer to finance these assets, which have a longer-asset life 
than the period of time that would be required to build network upgrades.  Where a load or 
hybrid facility has equipment that permanently enables a network upgrade to be avoided, 
requiring a service conversion will needlessly raise costs for customers.  Further, because any 
ultimate conversion to firm service would be potentially contingent upon network upgrades 
whose costs are unknown, the developer may be unwilling to risk investing capital in building 
the equipment required to facilitate the temporary service arrangement. 
VIII. CONCLUSION 
This rulemaking proceeding presents an enormous and critical opportunity to address the 
significant challenges facing our industry.  Seizing this opportunity to protect consumers without 
constraining the economic development potential that large load growth represents will be 
complex, requiring revisions to different sets of tariff provisions that have traditionally been 
subject to separate regulatory requirements and Commission precedent, including load 
interconnection processes, generator interconnection processes, transmission service 
requirements, and Commission-jurisdictional resource adequacy constructs.  Getting these 
reforms right must be the first priority; the Commission should take the time needed to ensure 
that any final rule issued adequately addresses the full scope of problems driven by large load 
growth in a systematic way.  Specifically, for the purposes of this comment, failure to truly 
enable flexible loads and provide them a means to internalize the benefits they provide to the 
system risks slowing down progress by disrupting the potential for state innovation and failing to 
reduce the monumental cost of transmission expansion and capacity growth otherwise necessary 
to integrate large loads into the transmission system.  Eolian is optimistic, however, about the 
Commission’s ability to issue such a rule, and greatly appreciates the opportunity to provide a 

--- PAGE 41 ---
41 
 
workable framework and set of pathways that will enable flexibility resources, and, in particular, 
hybrid resources to contribute to solving these problems to the maximal extent technically 
feasible.  
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
/s/Ariel Horowitz 
Ariel Horowitz 
Eolian L.P. 
988 Howard Ave. Suite 200,  
Burlingame, CA 94010 
ariel.horowitz@eolianenergy.com 
 
Miles Farmer 
Avi Zevin 
Nathan Lobel 
Roselle LLP 
300 New Jersey Ave. NW, Suite 300 
Washington, DC 20001 
miles.farmer@rosellellp.com 
avi.zevin@rosellellp.com 
nathan.lobel@rosellellp.com 
 
Counsel for Eolian L.P. 
 

--- PAGE 42 ---
Attachment A 

--- PAGE 43 ---
Affidavit of Andrew Levitt, et al. 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 | Page 1 of 21 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
AFFIDAVIT OF 
ANDREW LEVITT, ANIRUDDH MOHAN, RYAN QUINT, AND SIRISHA TANNEERU 
ON BEHALF OF 
EOLIAN ENERGY, INC. 
November 21, 2025 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 44 ---
Affidavit of Andrew Levitt, et al. 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 | Page 2 of 21 
I. 
QUALIFICATIONS 
1 
Our names are Andrew Levitt, Aniruddh Mohan, Ryan Quint, and Sirisha Tanneeru. Mr. Levitt 
2 
is a Senior Consultant and Dr. Mohan is an Energy Associate at The Brattle Group (Brattle). Dr. 
3 
Quint is the President and Chief Executive Officer and Ms. Tanneeru is Lead Engineer at Elevate 
4 
Energy Consulting (Elevate).  
5 
Mr. Levitt is an expert on wholesale market design and reliability implications of changes in the 
6 
power system. He has consulted to Independent System Operators and Regional Transmission 
7 
Organizations (ISO/RTOs) such as the Midcontinent Independent System Operator (MISO), the 
8 
New York Independent System Operator (NYISO), the Alberta Electric System Operator 
9 
(AESO), and the Independent Electricity System Operator (IESO) of Ontario, and helped other 
10 
clients navigate ISO/RTO changes nationwide. Prior to joining Brattle in 2022, Mr. Levitt was 
11 
on staff at PJM for seven years (most recently as Lead Market Designer), where he developed 
12 
reforms to reliably integrate new resource types. Mr. Levitt holds an MMP from University of 
13 
Delaware and a BSc in physics from University of Toronto. 
14 
Dr. Mohan specializes in the evaluation of emerging energy technologies at a systems level, with 
15 
expertise in electricity markets, techno-economic analysis, and energy policy. He has expertise in 
16 
optimization models that support both resource and transmission planning and has published  
17 
peer reviewed research in leading academic journals on the integration of emerging technologies 
18 
in energy systems. He holds a PhD in Engineering & Public Policy from Carnegie Mellon 
19 
University. 
20 
Dr. Quint has participated in and led numerous industry initiatives at the Energy Systems 
21 
Integration Group (ESIG), Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), International 
22 
Council on Large Electric Systems (CIGRE), and North American Electric Reliability 
23 
Corporation (NERC) forums. Prior to founding Elevate, Dr. Quint spent nearly 9 years at the 
24 
NERC, most recently as the Director of Engineering and Security Integration where he led 
25 
strategic initiatives working with industry stakeholders focused on emerging reliability risk 
26 
mitigation. Dr. Quint holds a PhD in power systems engineering from Virginia Polytechnic 
27 
Institute and State University and is a registered Professional Engineer. 
28 

--- PAGE 45 ---
Affidavit of Andrew Levitt, et al. 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 | Page 3 of 21 
Sirisha Tanneeru has over 15 years of experience in the electric utility industry, spanning across 
1 
utilities, renewable development, and consulting. She has extensive experience in transmission 
2 
expansion planning, particularly generation and load interconnections and NERC compliance. 
3 
She provided interconnection strategy support for several greenfield and brownfield renewable 
4 
projects in the MISO, Southwest Power Pool (SPP), and the Western Electricity Coordinating 
5 
Council (WECC) regions. Ms. Tanneeru holds an MS from New Mexico State University. 
6 
II. 
ASSIGNMENT 
7 
We were asked by Eolian Energy, Inc. to comment on the Secretary of Energy’s Advance Notice 
8 
of Proposed Rulemaking (ANOPR), specifically to substantiate and assess reliability aspects of 
9 
the fourteen principles associated with studies and operations of hybrid facilities (i.e., generation 
10 
facilities supporting on-site or nearby large load facilities) that can meet their own capacity needs 
11 
without relying on the broader system for firm power. We focus on ANOPR principles numbered 
12 
three, five, six, and seven. 
13 
III. 
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCESS TO STREAMLINE CONNECTION OF 
14 
HYBRID FACILITIES 
15 
The ANOPR proposes reforms to the process for interconnecting large loads to the transmission 
16 
system guided by fourteen principles, several of which bear on studies and operations of hybrid 
17 
facilities. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) has initiated a rulemaking to 
18 
consider and take final action on the ANOPR, which may result in a NOPR and a subsequent 
19 
final rule.  
20 
In this Affidavit, we develop and assess a proposal for one aspect of the streamlined 
21 
interconnection study process specified in principle seven, while also addressing principles three, 
22 
five, and six. Our proposal relies on the key capability of a hybrid facility to meet its own 
23 
power needs—i.e., achieve a zero net megawatt (MW) exchange with the grid—when so 
24 
dispatched at any time (including load curtailment if the hybrid’s facility’s supporting 
25 
generation cannot produce). The potential for “net zero impact” for a hybrid facility, including 
26 
the ability of the load to be curtailed if the generation is unavailable, is a compelling case to 
27 

--- PAGE 46 ---
Affidavit of Andrew Levitt, et al. 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 | Page 4 of 21 
simplify the study process, minimize costly network upgrades, and maximize system operator 
1 
controllability to ensure reliable operation of the bulk power system.  
2 
Because new supporting generation that is electrically close to a new large load (but not 
3 
necessarily on-site) can provide the same benefits as a hybrid facility, our analyses include this 
4 
broader configuration (following SPP’s recent High Impact Large Load Generation Assessment 
5 
(HILLGA) proposal that similarly allows for loads and generation that are electrically near each 
6 
other but not necessarily at the same site).1 We refer to both on-site and electrically close as 
7 
hybrid facilities. We recommend that the Commission’s proposed definition of hybrid facilities 
8 
include both on-site and electrically close designs of hybrid facilities.  
9 
This proposal sets forth a streamlined study process for connecting a new hybrid facility. As 
10 
explained further below, where such a facility meets certain flexibility requirements, its 
11 
interconnection to the system can be streamlined by its interconnecting Transmission Owner in a 
12 
serial fashion outside of the standard interconnection queues for either generation or load. In 
13 
such circumstances, only one study process is required to connect both the load and generation 
14 
components of the facility. The streamlined process yields transmission agreements and control 
15 
mechanisms for connection and service for both the generation and load components of the 
16 
hybrid facility, granting the necessary conditional permission for injection and withdrawal. 
17 
Should the serial study process we set forth find major transmission network upgrades are likely 
18 
to be needed at the requested level of service, then it identifies a lower operating limit at which 
19 
the hybrid facility can connect without triggering such upgrades. In order to increase the 
20 
operating limit or to request conventional firm service, the hybrid facility developer has the 
21 
option to request a full load interconnection study through the standard load interconnection 
22 
study process, and/or to require the generation components of the hybrid facility to be studied in 
23 
the standard generation interconnection process (but in a manner that accounts for the existence 
24 
of the associated load). 
25 
While the proposal is focused on dispatchable and curtailable hybrid facilities, the streamlined 
26 
study methods we set forth are inherently applicable to curtailable large loads as well. Like a 
27 
 
1  
Southwest Power Pool, Submission of Tariff Revisions to Add the High Impact Large Load Processes and 
Generation Assessment, filed October 24, 2025, FERC docket number ER26-247 

--- PAGE 47 ---
Affidavit of Andrew Levitt, et al. 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 | Page 5 of 21 
hybrid facility, a curtailable large load could also avail itself of the standard load interconnection 
1 
study process in order to increase the operating limit identified in the streamlined process, or to 
2 
firm up its service to avoid curtailment.  
3 
The streamlined study process we set forth is one mechanism through which the Commission can 
4 
provide for quicker interconnection of curtailable and dispatchable hybrid facilities. As we 
5 
explain, this study process, which allows for serial study of facilities by the interconnecting 
6 
transmission owner outside the queue, is only appropriate where the facilities can meet a strict 
7 
set of operational and other criteria. 
8 
The proposed approach to rapid interconnection of hybrid facilities, which is in many respects 
9 
similar to SPP’s recent HILLGA proposal, has the following features: 
10 
• Is led by the transmission-owning utility, following the current load 
11 
interconnection processes.  
12 
• Jointly studies load and supporting generation facilities.  
13 
• Offers rapid study to confirm minimal material impact, conceptually 
14 
similar to (although with a more thorough study than) the streamlined 
15 
processes currently used for Surplus Interconnection Service in MISO and 
16 
SPP, which quickly identifies only de minimis network upgrades.2 
17 
• Utilizes the same studies already used today, except without deliverability 
18 
studies for firm net injections or withdrawals, since the hybrid facility relies on 
19 
self-supply for firmness rather than on the network (and the hybrid facility can 
20 
limit its net grid injections or withdrawals whenever necessary). 
21 
• Resolves study violations through operational means (rather than physical 
22 
upgrades) whenever practical and reliable; for example, steady state pre-
23 
contingency violations that can be addressed through operational curtailment 
24 
via Security Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) do not require network 
25 
upgrades. 
26 
 
2  
GridLab, Surplus Interconnection: A Tool to Immediately Deploy New Electricity Supply to Enhance Grid 
Reliability and Affordability, January 2025  

--- PAGE 48 ---
Affidavit of Andrew Levitt, et al. 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 | Page 6 of 21 
• Relies on static operational limits where necessary to avoid transmission 
1 
upgrades by limiting the maximum allowable net grid injections or 
2 
withdrawals to certain study-determined levels (or even zero) at any time. 
3 
We have assessed the timing of studies necessary to implement the proposed approach, and 
4 
conclude that, in cases in which the process does not flag the need for additional detailed 
5 
analysis, studies can be completed in 90 days—and potentially as quickly as in 60 days.  
6 
Finally, we observe that a hybrid facility that can self-supply its energy needs at any time (or 
7 
otherwise curtail the load) can also use that capability to self-supply its resource adequacy 
8 
requirements so that no resource adequacy responsibilities are imposed on the rest of the system. 
9 
A Balancing Authority can recognize this in its resource adequacy construct (e.g., by not 
10 
allocating capacity obligation to the load of such a hybrid facility and by ensuring that the 
11 
dispatch and curtailment obligations of the hybrid facilities apply to both resource adequacy and 
12 
transmission reliability events).  
13 
III.A. 
Benefits of Rapid Interconnection of Hybrid Facilities 
14 
The proposed reforms to rapidly study and connect hybrid facilities take advantage of the fact 
15 
that their proximity and dispatch flexibility limits impacts on the broader transmission system at 
16 
any time. This provides the below benefits.  
17 
Accelerates Economic Development Priorities: the proposed reforms apply reliability analysis 
18 
techniques to closely coordinate transmission planning studies with state-of-the-art grid 
19 
operations, enabling faster connection of data centers and other large loads that fulfill national 
20 
and state priorities for artificial intelligence, critical energy infrastructure investments, 
21 
electronics, critical minerals, and other public priorities. 
22 
Encourages Entry of New Supply: by making the avoided transmission value of new supply 
23 
available to adjacent large load customers in the form of accelerated hybrid interconnection, the 
24 
proposed reforms provide a substantial incentive for new loads to contract with and bring online 
25 
new supply. Meanwhile, joint studies take advantage of adjacency to bring new supply on more 
26 

--- PAGE 49 ---
Affidavit of Andrew Levitt, et al. 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 | Page 7 of 21 
quickly than would otherwise be possible. Compared to large load growth without such reforms, 
1 
this aspect of the proposed streamlined hybrid study process offers these benefits: 
2 
• Mitigation of Resource Adequacy Concerns: the timely addition of on-site or 
3 
electrically close new supply that would not otherwise enter service (or only 
4 
with significant delays) mitigates both transmission capacity and resource 
5 
adequacy concerns. 
6 
• Reduction in Capacity Prices: the additional supply relieves scarcity in 
7 
markets for capacity and resource adequacy contracts, supporting affordability 
8 
objectives for existing customers, including in restructured states.3 
9 
• Reduction in Energy Prices: greater supply (especially during tight periods) 
10 
reduces average wholesale electricity prices. 
11 
Facilitates Practical Large Load Flexibility: by structuring hybrid facility operations such that 
12 
the load component relies on the dispatch of the associated generation component, utilizing load 
13 
curtailments only as a backstop measure, the proposed reforms unlock load flexibility in a way 
14 
that is compatible with large load business models that rely on very high availability—that is, 
15 
outsourcing much of the necessary overall flexibility to a supporting on-site or nearby generation 
16 
facility. This allows large loads to continue to count on exceptionally high availability of nearby 
17 
generation, while leveraging load curtailments (or backup generation) during those rare 
18 
occasions when the hybrid facility’s nearby generation resource cannot produce. 
19 
Limits Impact on Conventional Interconnection Requests: because the benefits of the reforms 
20 
are achieved by recognizing the capability of hybrid facilities to limit net grid injections and 
21 
withdrawals and their impacts on the transmission system (rather than by re-assigning available 
22 
grid capability to them from other generators with interconnection requests), the proposed 
23 
approach has less impact on conventional generator and load interconnection requests.  
24 
Can Rely on Protection Systems to Avoid Unauthorized Grid Use: the proposed reforms 
25 
require that inadvertent net injections or withdrawals of electricity from the transmission system 
26 
 
3  
For example, an analysis by the Independent Market Monitor for PJM found that rising capacity costs were 
almost entirely due to the resource adequacy needs of new large loads seeking to connect to the grid. 

--- PAGE 50 ---
Affidavit of Andrew Levitt, et al. 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 | Page 8 of 21 
in excess of standing operating limits can be avoided with site-level or local protection schemes, 
1 
which may be either behind-the-meter or local contained protections. This requirement simplifies 
2 
reliability study methodologies and the treatment of the hybrid facility’s component outages. 
3 
These protections do not need to be classified as “remedial action schemes,” particularly when 
4 
they are customer-controlled/owned.4  
5 
IV. 
PROPOSED PROCESS TO CONNECT HYBRID FACILITIES  
6 
To support development of a proposed rule for rapid interconnection of hybrid facilities, we 
7 
describe high-level features of the proposed process.  
8 
In addition to generally providing direction to FERC to regulate the interconnection of new loads 
9 
greater than 20 MW to the transmission system, the ANOPR distinguishes between the 
10 
interconnection of firm loads and hybrid facilities and those that are curtailable and dispatchable. 
11 
This most obviously covers two use cases important for accelerating interconnection, addressing 
12 
transmission needs, and mitigating resource adequacy shortfalls: (1) curtailable large loads and 
13 
(2) co-located hybrid facilities that can reduce net injection/withdrawals on demand. The 
14 
ANOPR’s concept of hybrid facilities can be extended to cases in which the large load is 
15 
electrically close to the paired generation, metered separately,5 and not necessarily at the same 
16 
site. This “electrically close” hybrid approach can provide many of the same benefits as strictly 
17 
on-site generation and load but is likely to be to more commercially feasible for some loads and 
18 
generation and therefore would deliver more value to the ANOPR’s objectives than a narrower 
19 
approach. Such electrically close hybrid facilities allow more flexibility in terms of their 
20 
development and siting, and do not require complex contracting to enable the on-site self-supply 
21 
of power that may be inconsistent with state laws on utility franchises (or direct retail sales 
22 
where applicable). Studying electrically close load and generation as a single hybrid facility adds 
23 
some complexity relative to studying a hybrid facility with on-site (and behind the meter) co-
24 
located loads and generation (for example to address the potential for localized overloads); 
25 
 
4  
NERC governs remedial action schemes through standard PRC-012-2 - Remedial Action Schemes.  
5  
Large loads that are contracted with supporting generation within the same resource adequacy zone but are not 
electrically close such that they cannot offer the same transmission cost and speed benefits as on-site or 
electrically close hybrid facilities, fall outside our proposed definition—even though we recognize that they can 
still meet the resource adequacy needs of a balancing authority.  

--- PAGE 51 ---
Affidavit of Andrew Levitt, et al. 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 | Page 9 of 21 
however, we find that this complexity is unlikely to add significant workload or slow down the 
1 
study process.  
2 
Because flexible loads, on-site hybrid facilities, and electrically close hybrid facilities can all 
3 
address both resource adequacy needs and transmission reliability needs, they should all be 
4 
enabled by the ANOPR. A streamlined interconnection option can be made available to all of 
5 
these options whenever the operating arrangement avoids time-consuming grid upgrades. These 
6 
fast-track options can presume that majority of the grid impacts are managed in the operations 
7 
horizon through SCED (including pre-contingency dispatch to ensure N-1 security) via dispatch 
8 
of generation (backstopped by curtailment of load), in combination with standing operational net 
9 
injection and withdrawal limits established in the streamlined interconnection studies. 
10 
Allowing for non-firm net injections from a hybrid facility (when the grid can accommodate it) 
11 
can benefit the wholesale energy market and also support the system during operational resource 
12 
adequacy shortfalls. Such grid injections would be allowed only on an “as available” basis, 
13 
subject to system operator (and market-based SCED) dispatch control. This is similar to the 
14 
Electric Reliability Council of Texas’s (ERCOT’s) “connect and manage” approach to generator 
15 
interconnection, and even less firm than existing Energy Resource Interconnection Service 
16 
(ERIS).6 Such conditional non-firm net injections based on available grid capacity are broadly 
17 
similar to PJM’s recent proposal for “provisional service” enabled by “Interim Deliverability 
18 
Studies”, as well as the Provisional Interconnection Service required under FERC Order Number 
19 
2023.7 Our proposed fast-track process for hybrid facilities is also similar to SPP’s recently 
20 
proposed 90-day HILLGA process filed with FERC in October.  
21 
When the streamlined studies detect major planning impacts that cannot be resolved through 
22 
operational redispatch (and therefore would require network upgrades), the process identifies the 
23 
 
6  
This level of very non-firm net injection service is well matched to generators whose primary purpose is to 
serve a local load, rather than to make net injections to the grid. However, developers of non-hybrid generators 
may also be interested in this level of service. While beyond the scope of this affidavit, we note that similar 
benefits to the energy market would be possible if the service were made available to all generators, and that 
such service could likely be processed more quickly than conventional ERIS or Network Resource 
Interconnection Service (NRIS), as evidenced by the comparative speed advantage in ERCOT. See e.g. LBNL, 
Queued Up: 2024 Edition, April 2024, slide 35. 
7  
D. Bielak, PJM Manual 14: New Service Requests Cycle Process v3 Revisionary Summary, 2025; FERC, Order 
No. 2023, issued July 28, 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054  

--- PAGE 52 ---
Affidavit of Andrew Levitt, et al. 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 | Page 10 of 21 
lower operating limit that can be accommodated without such network upgrades. The hybrid 
1 
facility’s developer then has the option to connect with the identified lower operating limits (on 
2 
either net injections or net withdrawals or both), and/or to proceed with additional studies 
3 
through the usual interconnection processes (i.e., the generator interconnection or the 
4 
conventional load integration processes, or both) in order to pursue the network upgrades needed 
5 
to increase the applicable operating limit (and/or to decrease expected curtailment risk).8 For 
6 
example, if a hybrid facility requesting to inject and withdraw certain amounts were flagged for 
7 
major grid upgrades to support both, it could choose to immediately connect with the lower net 
8 
injection limit and the lower net withdrawal limit (identified by the transmission owner, 
9 
potentially as low as zero megawatts), while simultaneously pursuing conventional load and 
10 
generator interconnection request to increase one or both operating limits in the longer-term. The 
11 
combination of streamlined studies allowing for immediate connection plus standard 
12 
interconnection process to enhanced operating limits and firmness allows for an efficient and 
13 
coordinated network upgrade process among all affected transmission systems. 
14 
Because the streamlined process avoids major network upgrades (if necessary, by limiting both 
15 
net injections and net withdrawals as low as zero megawatts), each transmission owner can 
16 
independently conduct streamlined hybrid interconnection processes (even within an ISO/RTO 
17 
region) in serial fashion in as little as 60–90 days. Meanwhile, any network upgrades desired by 
18 
the customer to increase the operating limit on net withdrawals or net injections can be processed 
19 
through the conventional interconnection process (on a slower timeline). An ISO/RTO with two 
20 
dozen transmission owners could therefore process up to 96 sets of hybrid facility9 
21 
interconnection requests over the course of a year, with four 90-day study cycles a year and 24 of 
22 
them running in parallel at any one time, even if each transmission owner can only conduct one 
23 
at a time. However, in some cases a transmission owner may be able to study certain hybrid 
24 
 
8  
We note that the generator interconnection process and the load integration process should both be enhanced 
with the study principles described here, namely: (a) joint study of contractually linked and electrically close 
generation and load; (b) recognition of curtailment as a reliability solution, if elected by the requestor and 
achievable in operations; and (c) recognition of fixed operating limits as a method to avoid upgrades where 
desired.  
9  
Coordination of impacts among transmission owner regions is required when hybrid requests are electrically 
close to each other. Such coordination can be established upfront such that the study includes all impacts 
without requiring separate affected system transmission owner analysis.  

--- PAGE 53 ---
Affidavit of Andrew Levitt, et al. 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 | Page 11 of 21 
facility requests in proximity together, so that across the ISO/RTO they can potentially process 
1 
more than the 96 requests per year. 
2 
IV.A. Applicability and Qualification 
3 
To illustrate the proposed fast-track process for hybrid facility interconnection studies, we focus 
4 
this discussion on the case of an agreement between a large new load and a new generator that 
5 
are electrically close but not at the same site. While our discussion focuses on such electrically 
6 
close hybrid facilities, the process is equally applicable to large loads that are curtailable and to 
7 
hybrid facilities with on-site loads and generation, such as those configured as energy parks with 
8 
behind-the-meter generation that can control their grid withdrawals and injections as required. 
9 
Under this process, hybrid facilities qualify for streamlined interconnection when they can 
10 
maintain specified operational limits that will be identified in the interconnection study, meet 
11 
dispatchability requirements, and meet other applicable requirements such as readiness 
12 
requirements, deposits, and a completed application.  
13 
The streamlined study framework would apply to a hybrid facility’s generation resource even if 
14 
the facility requests firm withdrawal rights for the entire load. While doing so would require the 
15 
load interconnection request to be studied through the standard load interconnection process, the 
16 
streamlined study process could still be applied to the hybrid facility’s generation 
17 
interconnection request as grid net injections from the hybrid facility would still be controllable 
18 
(e.g., to zero MW). Energization of the generation component can be conditional on completion 
19 
of the applicable load interconnection process. A generator and load of a hybrid facility are 
20 
“electrically close” when power flows directly from the former to the latter within the confines 
21 
of the local area. This “local area” is the set of nearby substations to which the hybrid facility’s 
22 
load and generation are connected, and the transmission facilities connecting them. When such 
23 
self-supply of large loads induces material loop flows over transmission facilities outside this 
24 

--- PAGE 54 ---
Affidavit of Andrew Levitt, et al. 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 | Page 12 of 21 
local area, it is not “electrically close”10 and the generation and load cannot be treated as a hybrid 
1 
facility for the purpose of the proposed streamlined interconnection process.  
2 
IV.B. 
Static Operating Limits and Configurations 
3 
Static operating limits play an important role in the present proposal. The operating limits 
4 
represent the maximum curtailable levels of net injections and withdrawal under which the grid 
5 
can be safely operated without material upgrades. The operating limits are static on a day-to-day 
6 
basis, with dynamic dispatch of the hybrid facilities taking place within the outer envelope of the 
7 
operating limits. Therefore, they do not represent firm access to transmission capacity, but rather 
8 
the limit of non-firm access to transmission capacity. 
9 
As part of its application for streamlined interconnection, the hybrid facility would nominate 
10 
initial static operating limits (in megawatts) for aggregate net injections and net withdrawals of 
11 
power (consistent with ANOPR principle five). The streamlined process studies the nominated 
12 
operating limits, and if necessary, establishes lower operating limits to avoid network upgrades.  
13 
The static operating limits are applied to any withdrawals (e.g., the sum of load and any battery 
14 
storage charging, if applicable) net of any generation output, and vice versa (i.e., injections net of 
15 
consumption). The grid operator can dispatch the combined load and generation components of 
16 
the hybrid facility anywhere within the allowed operating limits as needed to ensure reliable and 
17 
efficient operations, including effective curtailment of the joint withdrawals or injections. When 
18 
the grid operator dispatches a curtailment below the operating limit, the hybrid facility must 
19 
reduce power accordingly.  
20 
To secure reliability, interconnection studies may specify automatic controls to maintain net 
21 
output within operating limits between dispatch intervals, for example in case of sudden loss of a 
22 
generation unit within the hybrid. Such automatic controls may be required to ensure the 
23 
operating limits are respected in a sufficiently timely fashion. When that timescale is less than 
24 
 
10  An initial concept for electrical closeness could allow for only 3% of self-supply power to flow through ties 
connecting the local area to the network, and 1% to flow over other transmission facilities outside the local area. 
See Appendix I, Sirisha Tanneeru, et al, “Reliability Assessment of Hybrid Facilities: Overview of Large Load 
and Generation Co-located Studies”, slide 5.  

--- PAGE 55 ---
Affidavit of Andrew Levitt, et al. 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 | Page 13 of 21 
SCED dispatch frequency (e.g., five minutes in most ISO/RTO markets), it may require the 
1 
installation of automatic controls to limit net injection/withdrawal from the hybrid facility, 
2 
potentially instantaneously.  
3 
As discussed further in Section IV.G below, we propose that static operating limits on net 
4 
withdrawals are fixed. For the static operating limits on net injections, two alternative policies 
5 
may be suitable: either operating limits that are perpetually fixed, or operating limits are adjusted 
6 
periodically (e.g., annually or quarterly), including potential reductions. This could be similar to 
7 
and coordinated with any existing Provisional Interconnection Service protocols.  
8 
Various configurations of the hybrid facility are possible, with implications for the 
9 
corresponding operating limits: 
10 
• Baseload self-supply: the hybrid facility’s generation matches demand at most 
11 
times, except for possibly brief periods to allow for rebalancing following a 
12 
contingency for loss of a hybrid generator unit or portion of the load;11 in this 
13 
case the operating limits would be zero net withdrawals and zero net injections. 
14 
• As-available withdrawals: the hybrid facility’s generation matches demand 
15 
when prices are high or when needed for the grid (including via load curtailment 
16 
if necessary), but generation never exceeds demand; otherwise, the load is 
17 
served from the grid as-available; operating limits are net withdrawals for the 
18 
load, and zero net injections. 
19 
• Storage-backed hybrid: same as above (zero net injections) with the option to 
20 
increase the withdrawal operating limit to accommodate simultaneous storage 
21 
charging and withdrawal by the large load. 
22 
• As-available withdrawals and net injections: when transmission capability is 
23 
available, the hybrid facility can withdraw from the grid when prices are cheap 
24 
and inject when prices are high; when needed for the grid, the hybrid facility can 
25 
self-supply (including load curtailment if needed). 
26 
 
11  Note that these imbalances can also be handled with protection schemes, as mentioned in the ANOPR and 
above. 

--- PAGE 56 ---
Affidavit of Andrew Levitt, et al. 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 | Page 14 of 21 
IV.C. 
Operational Obligations 
1 
The hybrid facility would have the following obligations: 
2 
• Must be available to dispatch to net-zero withdrawal or injection at any time 
3 
(through increase in generation or curtailment of load, or a combination). 
4 
• Must follow dispatch signals for transmission security to reduce net withdrawals 
5 
or injections, potentially with a higher degree of obligation and control than that 
6 
faced by an ordinary generator (recognizing that loads may be more reluctant to 
7 
curtail in operations than an ordinary generator would be to produce power). 
8 
• Must maintain net withdrawal and injection to within established static operating 
9 
limits, including after loss of a portion of the hybrid facility, which may require 
10 
protection schemes or rapid redispatch depending on the type of transmission 
11 
security violation. 
12 
• When integrated into a resource adequacy construct, must follow dispatches for 
13 
scarcity mitigation to reduce net withdrawals, with penalties for failure to 
14 
perform that are comparable to ordinary generators. 
15 
IV.D. Studies and Mitigations 
16 
The proposed study approach has the following features: 
17 
• 
Studies the generation and load facilities of the hybrid facility in a combined fashion 
18 
(consistent with ANOPR principle three).  
19 
• 
Studies the combinations of injection and withdrawal necessary to meet the nominated 
20 
operating limits; if the nominated operating limit cannot be met without triggering 
21 
network upgrades, the studies identify the lower maximum permissible operating limit (if 
22 
necessary zero net injections or withdrawals) that can be accommodated;12 (impacts that 
23 
would trigger major network upgrades are those that cannot be managed in operations—
24 
 
12  Short circuit fault current impacts are completely mitigated through local upgrades   

--- PAGE 57 ---
Affidavit of Andrew Levitt, et al. 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 | Page 15 of 21 
this may include stability-based operating limits not captured with SCED or other real-
1 
time operational tools).  
2 
• 
The interconnection studies recognize and incorporate any redundancies in the design of 
3 
the hybrid facilities and local area that enhance the self-supply capability of the hybrid 
4 
facility by limiting the impact of loss of any one element; examples include use of many 
5 
smaller generating units, and substation configurations that avoid the loss of multiple 
6 
generation units due to failure of a single element. 
7 
The streamlined hybrid facility connection process conducts the same studies as conventional 
8 
load and generation connection processes, except that it omits studies of firm deliverability of net 
9 
injections and withdrawals to and from the broader system (recognizing that firm deliverability 
10 
instead takes place internal to the hybrid facility’s local area). Therefore, the streamlined study 
11 
process includes:  
12 
• 
Steady-state power flow (thermal and voltage) analysis, potentially under scenarios such 
13 
as on-peak and off-peak (and otherwise as ordinarily applicable); 
14 
• 
Stability analysis;  
15 
• 
Short circuit and fault duty analysis; and  
16 
• 
Electromagnetic transient (EMT) stability screening (with detailed EMT impact studies 
17 
where needed). 
18 
Unlike the conventional connection process where firm deliverability is required, study 
19 
violations that can be resolved through operational redispatch and curtailment would not trigger 
20 
grid upgrades. For example, if studies for a request for 500 MW as-available withdrawals for a 
21 
hybrid facility indicate that the grid can only accommodate 200 MW securely (and there are not 
22 
stability-based issues), then no network upgrades are required since system operators can resolve 
23 
any violations in real-time through curtailment. This is similar to the ERCOT’s connect and 
24 
manage approach to generator interconnection.  
25 
If stability-based static operating limits are identified, they must be adhered to by the hybrid 
26 
facility (or network upgrades must be put in place to address the instability if it cannot be 
27 

--- PAGE 58 ---
Affidavit of Andrew Levitt, et al. 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 | Page 16 of 21 
detected and managed during real-time operations). Similarly, all short circuit fault duty analysis 
1 
network upgrades are put in place since they cannot be detected and managed during real-time 
2 
operations. 
3 
Since the system must not be put into an unstudied operating state, it is important that the study 
4 
approach reflects consistency between planning/interconnection assumptions and operational 
5 
capabilities. This approach is made possible by the operational obligation to be 
6 
dispatchable/curtailable into a full net-zero withdrawal and injection state at any time, 
7 
backstopping generation (or exhausted storage) with load curtailment (and/or by dispatching the 
8 
load’s run-time-limited backup generators) if necessary.  
9 
IV.E. 
Processing of Studies 
10 
Because the proposed approach utilizes load curtailment and backup generation as flexibility to 
11 
manage system impacts, major reliability impacts (that would ordinarily require network 
12 
upgrades) would only be identified when the issue cannot be managed by operations in real-time, 
13 
for example via pre-contingency SCED actions. Further, because major network upgrades are not 
14 
identified in this streamlined approach (upgrades are limited only to the local area), studies can 
15 
be conducted in a fast-tracked serial study process. Similarly, avoiding regional upgrades reduces 
16 
interactions among transmission owners, allowing each transmission owner to conduct 
17 
streamlined hybrid facilities studies independently (similar to load connection processes today), 
18 
which increases the number of such studies that can be undertaken simultaneously in a region.  
19 
When the streamlined studies identify critical impacts that would trigger transmission upgrades, 
20 
a lower operating limit is identified that avoids these critical impacts (potentially as low as 
21 
zero  megawatts). Hybrid facility developers that wish to raise the operating limit have the 
22 
opportunity to pursue the necessary network upgrades following the standard interconnection 
23 
study processes and timeline. When a request is to increase the operating limit for net injections, 
24 
that process is the generator interconnection queue (generally a cluster study process). When the 
25 
requested operating limit increase is for net withdrawals, the existing load connection process is 
26 
followed (which can be serial or cluster, depending on the region). Even if request for increased 
27 
net withdrawals requires that the load interconnection request is studied through the conventional 
28 

--- PAGE 59 ---
Affidavit of Andrew Levitt, et al. 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 | Page 17 of 21 
load interconnection process, the generation interconnection portion of the hybrid facility can 
1 
continue to be analyzed in a streamlined fashion (since net injections would still be limited). 
2 
Energization of the generation component can be conditional on completion of the applicable 
3 
load interconnection process. Similarly, the reverse is true if the conventional generator 
4 
interconnection study process is utilized to enhance requested net injections.  
5 
IV.F. 
Interaction with Resource Adequacy Constructs 
6 
The approach to studying hybrid facilities and their corresponding obligations can interact with 
7 
resource adequacy studies. We observe that a hybrid facility that can self-supply its energy needs 
8 
at all times (or otherwise curtail the load) can use that capability to self-supply its resource 
9 
adequacy requirements so that no resource adequacy responsibilities fall on the rest of the 
10 
system. A Balancing Authority should recognize this in their resource adequacy studies by not 
11 
allocating capacity requirements to the load of a hybrid facility and by ensuring that the 
12 
dispatch/curtailment obligation of the hybrid facilities applies to both resource adequacy and 
13 
transmission reliability events.  
14 
IV.G. Ongoing Planning for Operating Limits  
15 
A holder of executed interconnection agreements of a hybrid facility will not have firm 
16 
transmission service rights for injections or withdrawals. However, we propose that the 
17 
maximum operating limit on curtailable net withdrawals of hybrid facilities is fixed in time (with 
18 
increases possible through network upgrades via the applicable load study process). These non-
19 
firm withdrawal operating limits are therefore maintained as necessary in planning studies as the 
20 
system evolves from year to year. For the operating limit on curtailable net injections of a hybrid 
21 
facility, we recognize alternative potential policies. The first alternative would permanently fix 
22 
operating limits on net injections, following the approach for net withdrawals. The second 
23 
alternative would instead periodically adjust the operating limit (similar to “provisional service” 
24 
for generators). Under the second alternative, hybrid facilities’ generators face substantial 
25 
revenue risks because their net injection operating limits can be reduced, potentially to zero and 
26 
potentially for extended periods of time. On the other hand, under the fixed operating limits of 
27 

--- PAGE 60 ---
Affidavit of Andrew Levitt, et al. 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 | Page 18 of 21 
the first alternative, while revenue risk is lower, future generation planning studies must maintain 
1 
the net injection operating limits. 
2 
V. 
STREAMLINED STUDY TIMELINE AND DURATION EXPECTATIONS 
3 
The streamlined reliability studies and assessments for hybrid facilities include relatively 
4 
standardized studies that are already in use today (i.e., steady-state power flow, transient 
5 
stability, short-circuit/breaker duty analysis) as well as studies that are increasingly becoming 
6 
important with new technologies (e.g., EMT screens and analyses). These studies have been 
7 
traditionally performed for both generator and load interconnections.  
8 
The standard study timeline depends on the operating limit configuration(s) defined in IV.B, the 
9 
requested facilities that define the footprint of study (i.e., the local area connecting the hybrid 
10 
facility generation and load), and the number of additional scenarios needed to identify 
11 
operational impacts of the net grid withdrawals and injections.  
12 
When the large load is self-supplied at all times via a behind-the-meter configuration or a front-
13 
of-the-meter configuration at the same electrical node (i.e., a zero-megawatt operating limit for 
14 
both injections and withdrawals), stability and short-circuit analysis can be performed 
15 
simultaneously and study will focus on a much smaller footprint near the Point of 
16 
Interconnection (POI). As shown in Appendix I, reliability studies for such cases can generally 
17 
be completed within 60 days, assuming all information and modeling data is accurate and 
18 
available from the interconnection application.13 Steady-state analysis is not required as the net 
19 
grid withdrawal and injection is zero megawatt and any inadvertent injection/withdrawals are 
20 
dealt with operationally (e.g., with protection schemes).  
21 
When the hybrid facility’s large load is self-supplied at all times via front-of-the-meter 
22 
generation in a local area configuration (i.e., not at the same electrical node, but electrically close 
23 
with a zero megawatt operating limit), steady-state analysis, stability, and short-circuit analysis 
24 
must be performed on the local area network, which is a slightly bigger footprint than the 
25 
 
13  Appendix I, Sirisha Tanneeru, et al, “Reliability Assessment of Hybrid Facilities: Overview of Large Load and 
Generation Co-located Studies”, slide 10. 

--- PAGE 61 ---
Affidavit of Andrew Levitt, et al. 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 | Page 19 of 21 
behind-the-meter configuration. Nevertheless, it is still likely that these reliability studies can be 
1 
performed in 60 days. Short-circuit analyses can be performed in parallel with steady-state and 
2 
stability analyses to streamline the study.  
3 
Any configuration involving non-zero operating limits for curtailable grid withdrawals or 
4 
injections requires broader reliability studies and analyses that encompass the broader 
5 
transmission owner and/or ISO/RTO footprint in addition to the studies required for the local 
6 
area. These additional studies include steady-state power flow and contingency analysis in 
7 
addition to transient stability simulations of various load and generation patterns to uncover 
8 
potential impacts that could be encountered in operations. These studies are used to identify and 
9 
establish the net withdrawal/injection operating limits for the hybrid facility necessary to avoid 
10 
critical impacts and identify network upgrades for impacts that cannot be mitigated in operations. 
11 
Due to their broader reach, the timeline for these studies may exceed 60 days. While most 
12 
requests can likely be assessed in 60–90 days, as hybrid facility interconnection requests 
13 
increase, study complexity will rise, which may lead to longer study timelines.  
14 
Lastly, the stability analyses for hybrid facilities includes a preliminary screen to identify the 
15 
need for detailed EMT studies. EMT studies are used to identify potential reliability risks, system 
16 
performance deficiencies, controller interactions, converter instability, weak grid issues, sub-
17 
synchronous oscillation risks, and other complex phenomena that cannot be identified using 
18 
phasor-domain simulation platforms conventionally used in interconnection studies, long-term 
19 
planning, and operations. Irrespective of the facility’s configuration, when the EMT screening 
20 
results call for comprehensive EMT study, the resulting assessment is resource- and 
21 
computationally intensive, requires much more detailed and specific data from the 
22 
interconnection customer, and often requires several months to complete. In situations where 
23 
EMT studies are identified as necessary, particularly for AI data centers or cryptocurrency loads, 
24 
these studies should not be overlooked given their criticality in maintaining a reliable bulk power 
25 
system. When appropriate, EMT studies for multiple hybrid requests could be performed in 
26 
parallel. Study timelines will exceed 60 days if detailed EMT studies are triggered by the 
27 
screenings and should be accommodated as such. It is expected that the integration of large 
28 
electronic loads and the growth of inverter-based generation, each with their unique inverter-
29 
based characteristics, will accelerate the need for EMT studies moving forward.  
30 

--- PAGE 62 ---
Affidavit of Andrew Levitt, et al. 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 | Page 20 of 21 
VI. 
CONCLUSION 
1 
Most hybrid facilities can likely be connected without major network upgrades outside their local 
2 
area when they are curtailable and subject to static operating limits. They can therefore be 
3 
studied in a rapid, serial, utility-led process focused on identifying the level of fixed operating 
4 
limits on the net injections and withdrawals from the broader grid that can reliably be 
5 
accommodated. This meets key objectives of speed to market, associated economic development, 
6 
and improved outcomes for reliability and affordability. In many cases, such studies can be 
7 
completed in 60 days for hybrid facilities that self-supply at all times (i.e., zero megawatt 
8 
operating limit for withdrawals and injections) or in 90 days for other hybrid facilities (e.g., those 
9 
that request the ability to withdraw power when the grid can accommodate it). For hybrid 
10 
facilities’ interconnection requests that fail EMT screens (e.g., due to weak grid problems) or 
11 
that are in areas with numerous hybrid facility connection requests, studies may take longer than 
12 
90 days but will still benefit from the concepts outlined herein that propose these studies jointly 
13 
consider both generation and load and the dispatchability of both resources.  
 
14 

--- PAGE 63 ---
Affidavit of Andrew Levitt, et al. 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 | Page 21 of 21 
Affidavit of Andrew Levitt  
 
I, Andrew Levitt, do hereby swear, that I have co-authored the Affidavit of Andrew 
Levitt, Aniruddh Mohan, Ryan Quint, and Sirisha Tanneeru, and the statements contained therein 
are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge and belief.  
Andrew Levitt  
 
 
Date: November 21, 2025. 
Affidavit of Aniruddh Mohan 
 
I, Aniruddh Mohan, do hereby swear, that I have co-authored the Affidavit of Andrew 
Levitt, Aniruddh Mohan, Ryan Quint, and Sirisha Tanneeru, and the statements contained therein 
are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge and belief.  
Aniruddh Mohan 
 
 
Date: November 21, 2025 
Affidavit of Ryan Quint  
 
I, Ryan Quint, do hereby swear, that I have co-authored the Affidavit of Andrew Levitt, 
Aniruddh Mohan, Ryan Quint, and Sirisha Tanneeru, and the statements contained therein are 
true and accurate to the best of my knowledge and belief.  
Ryan Quint 
 
 
 
Date: November 21, 2025 
Affidavit of Sirisha Tanneeru 
 
I, Sirisha Tanneeru, do hereby swear, that I have co-authored the Affidavit of Andrew 
Levitt, Aniruddh Mohan, Ryan Quint, and Sirisha Tanneeru, and the statements contained therein 
are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge and belief.  
Sirisha Tanneeru 
 
 
Date: November 21, 2025 

--- PAGE 64 ---

--- PAGE 65 ---

--- PAGE 66 ---

--- PAGE 67 ---

--- PAGE 68 ---

--- PAGE 69 ---

--- PAGE 70 ---

--- PAGE 71 ---

--- PAGE 72 ---

--- PAGE 73 ---

--- PAGE 74 ---
Attachment B 

--- PAGE 75 ---
1 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
BEFORE THE  
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION  
  
)  
Interconnection of Large Loads 
 
 
) 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000  
to the Interstate Transmission System 
 
)  
  
ATTACHMENT B  
 COMMENTS OF EOLIAN L.P.  
ON THE ADVANCE NOTICE OF PROPOSED RULEMAKING 
 
List of Key Reforms to Enable Flexible Load and Hybrids 
 
I. 
Reforms to Load Interconnection Process 
• Establish a standardized process, such as a pro forma load interconnection 
process. Ensure key safeguards against undue discrimination applied in the 
context of the pro forma large generator interconnection procedures and 
agreement, such as the option to build, are incorporated.   
• Establish rules regarding queue priority for flexible loads, including defining 
enforceable commitments to be curtailable (or curtailable and dispatchable for the 
load study of a hybrid facility) that warrant queue priority. 
• Establish rules pursuant to which eligible hybrid facilities may be studied in a 
separate process, the streamlined study (Category of Reform IV), and avoid 
duplicative study via the load interconnection process. 
• Establish cost allocation rules to apply to load interconnection process. 
 
II. 
Reforms to Generator Interconnection Queue Process 
• Establish rules requiring a study process that incorporates load into a generator 
interconnection study for generators with defined commitments to serving that 
load, and corresponding limited interconnection rights to serve that studied load 
(as opposed to those that would be granted to serve all network loads).   
• Establish rules pursuant to which eligible hybrid facilities may be studied in a 
separate process, the streamlined study (Category of Reform IV), and avoid 
duplicative study via the generator interconnection process. 
 
III. 
Reforms to Transmission Service Requirements  
• Reform rules to enable non-firm and conditional transmission service other than 
point-to-point service, including terms of service granting the right of the 
transmission provider to curtail such loads under particular conditions. Ensure 
storage resources that are a part of a hybrid resource may be eligible for such new 
transmission service for charging.  
• Reform rules on curtailment of load, as necessary, to reflect the terms of non-firm 
and conditional transmission service. 
• Conforming changes to transmission planning and cost allocation provisions, as 
necessary, to reflect non-firm and conditional service for relevant loads. 

--- PAGE 76 ---
2 
 
  
IV. 
Establish a Streamlined Study Process for Eligible Hybrid Facilities 
• Establish a single study, serial interconnection process for hybrid facilities with 
defined limits on aggregate net injections and withdrawals of power. 
 
V. 
Reforms to Commission-jurisdictional resource adequacy constructs 
• Reforms, as necessary, to recognize the resource adequacy contributions of 
flexible load and hybrids in existing Commission-jurisdictional resource adequacy 
constructs. 
