--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
 
) 
Interconnection of Large Loads 
)   
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
to the Interstate Transmission System 
) 
 
) 
 
 
COMMENTS OF GOOGLE LLC 
 
Google LLC (“Google”) hereby submits these initial comments on the Secretary of 
Energy’s letter regarding the interconnection of large loads and the accompanying Advanced 
Notice of Proposed Rulemaking proposal (“DOE ANOPR Proposal”) pursuant to the October 27, 
2025, notice issued by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“Commission”) in the above-
captioned proceeding.1  These issues are critically important and bear directly on the 
Commission’s ability to satisfy its statutory responsibilities under the Federal Power Act as well 
as our nation’s national security and economic growth.  Given those stakes, Google urges the 
Commission to promptly and pragmatically prioritize the reforms that can be implemented most 
quickly and that will incentivize digital and energy infrastructure development in a manner that 
maximizes use of the existing infrastructure and minimizes strain on the grid.    
 
1 Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Proposed Advanced Notice of Proposed 
Rulemaking, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (filed Oct. 23, 2025) (“DOE ANOPR Proposal”). 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
 
 
 
2 
I. 
INTRODUCTION  
Secretary Wright is correct that the “timely, orderly, and non-discriminatory” 
interconnection of large loads, including data centers, to the transmission system is critical to 
ensuring American prosperity.2  Artificial intelligence (“AI”), machine learning, and other 
advanced computing applications are poised to transform the economic landscape and shape 
American technological and national security.  As President Trump recently observed, there is a 
“race to achieve global dominance in artificial intelligence,” with the winner securing the ability 
to “set global AI standards and reap broad economic and military benefits.”3   
The United States’ prospects for winning the AI race depend on our digital infrastructure, 
and data centers in particular.  It is that infrastructure that will provide the computing power 
necessary to develop world-leading AI, machine learning, and other advanced capabilities.  
Developing that digital infrastructure, in turn, requires access to a reliable, resilient, and secure 
electric grid.  Without the ability to promptly provide new data centers with access to electricity, 
we risk ceding American leadership to foreign adversaries.   
In the balance of this pleading, we present our initial recommendations on how to prioritize 
the issues presented in this proceeding as well as our comments on specific principles proposed by 
Secretary Wright.  Before doing so, however, it is necessary to underscore that winning the AI 
race is as much about the transmission grid itself as it is the interconnection of data centers to that 
grid.  The transmission grid is the foundation of our electrical system and the basis for our modern, 
 
2 Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Letter of Dep’t of Energy Sec. 
Christopher Wright, Docket No. RM26-4-000, at 1 (filed Oct. 23, 2025) (“Sec. Wright Ltr.”). 
3 Executive Office of the President, Winning the Race: America’s AI Action Plan, at 1 (July 2025), 
https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Americas-AI-Action-Plan.pdf.   

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
 
 
 
3 
digital economy.  Without a world-leading transmission grid, the United States will inevitably face 
an uphill battle to develop the world-class digital infrastructure needed to win the AI race.    
But our transmission grid is strained.  The combination of aging infrastructure, decades of 
underinvestment, and fragmented, highly localized planning practices have resulted in a 
transmission grid that is struggling to keep up with the demands of this new digital infrastructure.  
Instead of well-coordinated regional transmission solutions, customers are increasingly paying for 
piecemeal upgrades that fail to leverage the efficiencies of scale and geographic diversity.  This 
dynamic negatively affects both sides of the interconnection equation: it slows the “timely, orderly, 
and non-discriminatory” interconnection of large loads,4 and the generation facilities needed to 
power those large loads.  Terawatts of new generation capacity are stuck in interconnection queues 
because of inadequate transmission infrastructure.5  The result is not just delays in advanced 
computing capabilities, but also burdens on everyday Americans who pay more when new supply 
cannot reach the market to meet high prices.  Now is the moment to right the ship and build out 
the transmission grid needed to support our nation’s ambitious AI goals.  And we must do this 
with a commitment to affordability: the goal is not to spend more, but to plan better in order to 
develop a transmission grid that can support the nation’s digital infrastructure needs.  Ultimately, 
a modern, robust transmission grid is the essential platform for delivering affordable, reliable 
energy to all customers, unlocking transformative dividends across the American economy—from 
AI leadership to a revitalized domestic manufacturing base. 
 
4 Sec. Wright Ltr. at 1. 
5 See Joseph Rand et al., Nat’l Renewable Energy Lab’y, Queued Up: 2024 Edition 3, 10 (Apr. 2024), 
https://emp.lbl.gov/sites/default/files/2024-04/Queued%20Up%202024%20Edition_R2.pdf (finding that nearly 2.6 
terawatts of capacity was pending in interconnection queues nationwide as of the end of 2023 and that projects that 
came online in 2023 spent an average of five years in the queue from interconnection request to commercial operation). 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
 
 
 
4 
Doing so requires a holistic transmission planning process that harmonizes both new load 
interconnection with new generation supply.  Given the scale, pace, and volume of large load 
interconnection requests as well as the corresponding scale, pace, and volume of new generator 
interconnection requests—both of which drive the need for new transmission infrastructure—
transmission planners must have a realistic picture of the generators and the large loads planning 
to interconnect to the transmission grid if they are to plan the grid in an efficient, cost-effective, 
and reliable manner.  While transmission planners already have visibility into the generation side 
of the equation through information regarding the Commission-jurisdictional generator 
interconnection queues, the same is not true on the demand side.  Large load interconnection 
requests remain, in many respects, a blind spot for regional transmission planners because of the 
differing utility-specific requirements and approaches for definitively incorporating a load into 
their planning forecasts.  A correspondingly accurate picture of the large load interconnection 
process—and the consequences that those additions have for transmission needs—is one of the 
primary potential benefits of greater involvement in the large load interconnection process by the 
Commission and, where applicable, regional transmission organizations or independent system 
operators (“RTOs/ISOs”).   
Without a comprehensive, coordinated transmission planning process built on a more 
complete picture of growth in supply and demand, we will be stuck developing transmission 
infrastructure through piecemeal, reactive processes that are insufficient to secure our position as 
a global manufacturing and economic powerhouse for decades to come.  In particular, Google 
urges the Commission to seriously consider whether efforts, such as the Consolidated Planning 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
 
 
 
5 
Process proposed by the Southwest Power Pool,6 that coordinate and integrate disparate processes 
driving transmission development can be expedited and adopted across the country.  While we 
recognize that improving this process will require meaningful reforms, those reforms are essential 
if the United States is to realize President Trump’s and Secretary Wright’s vision of a “a new era 
of American prosperity” based on “all Americans and domestic industries hav[ing] access to 
affordable, reliable, and secure electricity.”7 
II. 
WHO WE ARE 
Google’s mission is to organize the world’s information and make it universally accessible 
and useful.  AI is critical to that mission.  Data centers necessary to serve Google’s customers 
consume a large amount of electricity and require reliable electric service to operate.  As Google’s 
business grows, so too does its demand for reliable, affordable, and clean electricity. 
III. 
COMMENTS 
Given the stakes described above, Google urges the Commission to take a pragmatic 
approach to the broad range of issues presented in the ANOPR by focusing on the reforms that can 
be implemented most quickly and that will have the most significant immediate impact on reducing 
the time to interconnect new data centers.8  To do so, the Commission should prioritize reforms 
that will expedite the interconnection of facilities that maximize the use of existing infrastructure 
 
6 Sw. Power Pool, Inc., Transmittal Letter, Docket No. ER26-414-000 (filed Nov. 3, 2025).  
7 Sec. Wright Ltr. at 1.  
8 FERC has authority to tailor the scope of its reforms.  Indeed, the Supreme Court in New York v. FERC 
specifically upheld Order No. 888's rejection of arguments that it had to go further by noting: “Because FERC 
determined that the remedy it ordered constituted a sufficient response to the problems FERC had identified in the 
wholesale market, FERC had no § 206 obligation to regulate bundled retail transmissions or to order universal 
unbundling.”  New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1, 26-27 (2002).  So too here, the Commission can reasonably conclude 
that it is appropriate to tackle these issues in structured terms. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
 
 
 
6 
and minimize strain on the grid.  Although Google’s preference is to primarily take service from 
the grid, the Commission should focus in the near-term on facilitating the integration of co-located 
generation, including electric storage resources, and load and electrically proximate load and 
generation, which unlock planning and siting efficiencies that minimize transmission impact.  
Consistent with that emphasis on efficiency, we believe that it is important for load interconnection 
customers to have access to flexible interconnection or transmission service.  The quickest and 
most effective way to implement measures along these lines is, where possible, to deploy them as 
incentives, such as expedited interconnection for large loads that can bring their own co-located 
or electrically proximate generation or offer voluntary, verifiable load flexibility and demand 
response capabilities.  Incentive-based approaches will do the most to develop the infrastructure 
we need in the limited time we have.  In addition, the Commission should prioritize resolving long-
standing dockets where the record is sufficiently developed to provide timely regulatory clarity for 
the market.9  Google believes that tailoring the scope of this proceeding to focus on those issues 
first will do the most to support the goals articulated in the Secretary’s letter and advance this 
critically important initiative.   
A. The Commission Should Coordinate Studies To Expedite Interconnection of Paired, 
Electrically Proximate Large Loads and Generation 
Google has a strong preference to add new generation to serve new load.  However, as a 
first step in this proceeding to address lingering uncertainty, the Commission should clarify that 
new large load interconnections with existing generation facilities must be allowed to proceed 
under existing rules on file, including the existing generator modification process, while the 
 
9 See, e.g., PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 190 FERC ¶ 61,115 (2025). 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
 
 
 
7 
Commission pursues reforms through this proceeding.10  Next, the Commission should establish 
nationwide rules governing interconnection arrangements involving generation resources paired 
with new large loads that share either the same or an electrically proximate point of 
interconnection.11  The DOE ANOPR correctly observed that this approach “will allow for 
efficient siting of loads and generating facilities and thereby minimize the need for costly network 
upgrades.”12  This is also an appropriate place for the Commission to begin its reform effort 
because the Commission’s long history of regulating generator interconnection provides it with a 
base of experience to draw on to expeditiously craft new regulations.  In addition, focusing on 
measures to incentivize new loads to bring new, electrically proximate generation capacity will 
also help address reliability, resource adequacy, and affordability issues that could be associated 
with rapid demand growth, if not properly managed.   
The coordinated and expedited study of electrically proximate large loads and grid-
connected generators will facilitate the development of digital infrastructure while minimizing the 
strain on, and maximizing the use of, existing power infrastructure.  Accordingly, the Commission 
should craft procedures to expedite the transmission-level interconnection of new load and 
electrically proximate generation where a large load developer makes a financial commitment, via 
 
10 See Large Loads Co-Located at Generating Facilities, Post-Technical Conference Comments of Google LLC, 
Docket No. AD24-11-000, at 2 (Dec. 10, 2024).  
11 For example, SPP’s proposal to establish such a coordinated study process uses the term “electrically 
proximate” to mean points of interconnection that are located within two buses of each other.  See Sw. Power Pool, 
Inc., Open Access Transmission Tariff, attach. BB (High Impact Load Generation Assessment), § 3.1.3 (HILLGA 
Requirements) (0.0.0), § (5)(a)  (proposing to require load and generating facility points of interconnection to be no 
more than two substations apart); Sw. Power Pool, Inc., Submission of Tariff Revisions to Add the High Impact Large 
Load Processes and High Impact Large Load Generation Assessment, Docket No. ER26-247-000, at 26 (filed Oct. 
24, 2025) (“SPP HILLGA Proposal”). 
12 DOE ANOPR Proposal at P 20. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
 
 
 
8 
a power purchase agreement (“PPA”) or a similar agreement, to bring online a new generating 
facility, uprate or expand an existing generating facility, retain a generating facility that would 
otherwise retire, or enable a resource that would otherwise be uneconomic to undergo fuel-
switching.  To ensure that the generation is appropriately tailored to the new load, those 
commitments should match the load’s ramp and utilization schedule on a one-for-one basis with 
accredited generation, verified load flexibility, or demand response capabilities.   
As one example, the Commission could look to SPP’s recent High Impact Large Load 
Generation Assessment (“HILLGA”) proposal, which offers an expedited interconnection process 
for generation interconnection customers that plan to develop a generating facility to support a 
physically proximate High Impact Large Load (“HILL”).13  Generators that interconnect via the 
HILLGA process initially obtain limited interconnection rights solely to support the HILL and can 
separately obtain traditional generator interconnection service, such as Network Resource 
Interconnection Service (“NRIS”) or Energy Resource Interconnection Service (“ERIS”), through 
the existing generator interconnection process.14  While the HILLGA process does not provide 
transmission service for the generator to serve the HILL, the generator can obtain short-term or 
non-firm point-to-point transmission service on an as-available basis and transition to firm point-
to-point or network integration transmission service via existing processes.15  This framework 
 
13 See SPP HILLGA Proposal at 32.  A HILL is defined as “[a] new commercial or industrial load, or increase in 
commercial or industrial load, at a single site connected through one or more shared Points of Interconnection (POIs) 
or delivery points, where such load is either (1) 10 MW or more if connected to the Transmission System at a voltage 
level less than or equal to 69 kV; or (2) 50 MW or more if connected to the Transmission System at a voltage level 
greater than 69 kV.”  Id. at 12. 
14 Id. at 29. 
15 Id. 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
 
 
 
9 
provides a useful model of the type of innovation that can be implemented quickly to move the 
needle and get infrastructure built. 
As with the rules governing colocation or electrically proximate pairs of load and 
generation, and as in SPP’s HILL/HILLGA proposal, any new rules governing the interconnection 
of curtailable load must take the form of an incentive, not a requirement.16  It is also critical that 
any curtailment options be non-discriminatory and tailored to not interfere with a specific load’s 
operational needs.   
The Commission should establish a firm timeline for these and similar interconnection 
studies.  Google proposes a 90-day study timeline, which is consistent with recent expedited 
interconnection procedures approved by the Commission.17  In crafting those rules, the 
Commission can and should apply certain other elements of the generator interconnection process:  
for instance, the transmission provider should hold scoping meetings and share study results with 
customers for transparency, among others.  
In keeping with the principles in Secretary Wright’s letter, paired, electrically proximate 
load and generation should be studied based on the amount of injection and/or withdrawal rights 
 
16 BNP Paribas Energy Trading GP v. FERC, 743 F.3d 264, 268-69 (D.C. Cir. 2014).  
17 See Sw. Power Pool, Inc., Open Access Transmission Tariff, attach. AW (Expedited Resource Adequacy Study 
Procedures), § 8 (Definitive Planning Phase) (0.1.0), § 8.5 (ERAS Procedures) (“The Transmission Provider shall use 
Reasonable Efforts to complete the ERAS System Impact Study no later than ninety (90) Calendar Days after the 
close of the ERAS Review Period”); PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Open Access Transmission Tariff, part VII.C, § 
306 (Application Rules) (1.0.0), § B.3 (“Transmission Provider will only review an Application during the Application 
Review Phase following the Application Deadline for which the Application was submitted and deemed complete, 
which will extend for 90 days or the amount of time it takes to complete all Application review activities for the 
relevant Cycle, whichever is greater.”); SPP HILLGA Proposal at 15.  The 90-day timeframe is also consistent with 
the timeline for conducting serial system impact studies before the shift to cluster studies in Order No. 2023. See 
Improvements to Generator Interconnection Procs. & Agreements, Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054, at P 13, 
order on reh’g, 185 FERC ¶ 61,063 (2023), order on reh’g, Order No. 2023-A, 186 FERC ¶ 61,199, errata notice, 
188 FERC ¶ 61,134 (2024).  

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
 
 
 
10 
that they request.18  These injection and withdrawal rights represent how the parties will operate,19  
which is an appropriate consideration in determining how they should be studied, consistent with 
recent Commission precedent.  Specifically, in Order No. 2023, the Commission found that 
studying electric storage resources according to their planned operating assumptions “ensures the 
reliable interconnection of new electric storage resources without overestimating their impact on 
the transmission system, thereby ensuring just and reasonable rates by avoiding excessive and 
unnecessary network upgrades that may hinder the timely development of new generating facilities 
that stifles competition in the wholesale market.”20   
This conclusion applies equally here.  Although Order No. 2023 dealt specifically with the 
charging behavior of electric storage resources, it is appropriate to consider both injection and 
withdrawal operating parameters of paired load and generation.21  Indeed, paired load and grid-
connected generation presents an even more compelling case for consideration of operating 
parameters because these arrangements can often involve unique operating characteristics that are 
unlike a standalone load or a standalone generator.  Moreover, these arrangements are a valuable 
mechanism to facilitate the load growth necessary to meet the AI moment while minimizing strain 
on the grid.   
 
18 DOE ANOPR Proposal at P 22.  We assume that, in most cases, electrically proximate, but not co-located load 
and generation will typically request injection and withdrawal rights corresponding to 100% of their capacity.  
However, to the extent that assumption is incorrect, this principle should apply.    
19 Google also supports the corresponding principle that co-located facilities studied in this manner should be 
required to operate in accordance with the assumptions used in the interconnection studies.  DOE ANOPR Proposal 
at P 23. 
20 See Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054 at P 1510. 
21 See, e.g., SPP HILLGA Proposal at 32. 

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
 
 
 
11 
But although this incentive presents a potentially important pathway for facilitating the 
timely interconnection of new loads paired with new generation, it is necessary that it remain an 
incentive, not a requirement.  Because all load is “economically marginal” in the sense that 
customers impose equivalent costs “whether by adding or merely continuing their usage” 
regardless of when they first took service, imposing a requirement on only new load to bring its 
own supply would be unjust and unreasonable and unduly discriminatory.22  Accordingly, to avoid 
creating legal risk and uncertainty that could delay the development of the large load 
configurations that could most reduce strain on the grid, the Commission must ensure that any use 
of these configurations is voluntary and not a condition of interconnection.   
B. The Commission Should Consider Expedited Interconnection Treatment of 
Voluntarily  Flexible Loads  
The Commission should also focus its near-term efforts on identifying pathways to 
expediting other transmission-level load interconnections that benefit the grid, such as loads that 
voluntarily offer flexibility via demand reduction or agree to take curtailable transmission service.  
As with co-located or electrically proximate pairs of load and generation, Google believes that the 
Commission should consider prioritizing reforms to expedite the study of loads that can themselves 
minimize or help manage the strain on the transmission system.23  One way to achieve this goal is 
to establish expedited study procedures for transmission-level large loads that agree to be 
curtailable and for co-located facilities that agree to be both curtailable and dispatchable.    
 
22 BNP Paribas Energy Trading GP v. FERC, 743 F.3d at 268-69 (citations omitted); see also 1 Alfred Kahn, The 
Economics of Regulation: Principles and Institutions 140 (The MIT Press 1998) (explaining that an existing customer 
that is “continuing to take service is just as responsible, in proportion to the amount they take, for the need to expand 
investment” to accommodate another customer’s increasing demand).  
23 See Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 167 FERC ¶ 61,146, at P 62 (2019) (finding that it is appropriate 
to provide an expedited interconnection study process for replacement generating facilities that “will cause no material 
impact” on the transmission system).  

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
 
 
 
12 
And, separately from any transmission-level load interconnection reforms, the 
Commission should encourage transmission providers to pursue reforms to enable enhanced 
demand response participation in markets by loads whose flexibility is underutilized but may be 
limited to certain hours or capped at a certain number of hours based on business requirements.   
C. Transmission Service Charges Should be Based on Actual Use of the Transmission 
System 
Google agrees with the principle that the transmission service used to provide energy to 
new large loads should be based on the specific use of the transmission system at that point of 
interconnection.24  This principle is consistent with long-standing Commission cost causation 
precedent that transmission system charges should be based on actual use of the transmission 
system.25  For instance, where a generator serves a load located at the same point of 
interconnection, it may not use the transmission system to transmit the full quantity of capacity 
and energy matching the load’s peak demand.  To comport with the cost causation principle that 
undergirds the just and reasonable standard, a load’s transmission service should be measured 
based on its actual withdrawal rights from the transmission system. 
D. It is Appropriate to Impose Requirements to Deter Speculative Interconnection 
Requests and Ensure Customers Pay Their Full Costs of Service 
All new loads interconnecting to the transmission system—whether paired with co-located 
or electrically proximate generation or not—should be subject to safeguards to protect other 
customers and ratepayers.  In keeping with this overarching principle, the DOE ANOPR asserts 
 
24 DOE ANOPR Proposal at P 28. 
25 See PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 107 FERC ¶ 61,113, at P 28 (2004) (“[C]harges for the use of PJM's 
transmission system should be allocated to network customers based on a network customer's actual use of PJM's 
system, consistent with the principle of cost causation.” (citing Occidental Chem. Corp. v. PJM Interconnection, 
L.L.C., 102 FERC ¶ 61,275, at P 14 (2003))). 

--- PAGE 13 ---
 
 
 
 
13 
that facilities should be subject to standardized study deposits, readiness requirements, and 
withdrawal penalties to deter speculative projects and provide transmission providers with more 
useful information to more accurately forecast demand on their systems.  Those principles are 
consistent with Google’s long-standing advocacy at the state level for “Capacity Commitment 
Frameworks,” which include five elements:  
1. Non-Discriminatory Applicability:  Terms should apply to all new 
large loads with an expected peak demand above a certain threshold.  
Regulators should avoid adoption of mandatory terms for specific end-
uses of electricity.  
2. Long-Term Commitment:  New large loads should be required to sign 
a long-term contract that ensures that the customer commits to 
providing sufficient revenue to cover the investments made on their 
behalf.  Regulators should consider flexibility for customers to ramp 
into their load over time.  
3. Significant Minimum Charges:  New large loads should be required to 
pay costs of power capacity (e.g., approximated via demand charges) 
at a sufficient minimum to guard against potential cost shifting in the 
event that metered customer demand is significantly lower than 
planned for.  
4. Upfront Collateral:  To ensure financial stability of the requesting 
customer, regulators should consider the appropriate role for upfront 
collateral to provide financial assurance to the utility that the long-
term contract minimums can be met.  
5. Flexible and Transparent Fees for Modifications:  To protect other 
ratepayers, while also maintaining reasonable flexibility for new large 
loads, regulators should consider appropriate notice periods and fees 
for contract cancellation or capacity reduction. 
 
These Capacity Commitment Frameworks are geared to accomplish the same goal 
expressed in the DOE ANOPR.  That is, they simultaneously deter speculative investment while 
providing concrete, actionable information to system planners that reflect actual actions taken by 

--- PAGE 14 ---
 
 
 
 
14 
the large loads in question.  Ensuring that electricity system planning reflects the actual facts on 
the ground has itself been a longstanding priority of Google’s.26   
Capacity Commitment Frameworks also ensure that load customers pay their full costs of 
service.  The long-term energy contracts with minimum demand charges envisioned by the 
Capacity Commitment Framework are, however, quintessentially retail service terms.  While those 
retail service contracts are regulated at the state level,27 they are also relevant for FERC-
jurisdictional load forecasting practices.  When public utilities create load forecasts for wholesale 
market administration and transmission planning, they should include large loads in the forecast 
only if the developer has made appropriate and verifiable financial commitments commensurate 
with their stage in the development process.  Otherwise, the load forecasts will not produce reliable 
projections of future demand, which will inhibit efforts to plan new transmission and generation 
infrastructure in a reliable and cost-effective manner.  The Capacity Commitment Framework 
provides an excellent example of the genre of financial commitments that grid operators should 
expect a large load developer to make to demonstrate that the load is not speculative such that it 
should be included in a load forecast. 
The unifying principle of the Capacity Commitment Frameworks—that new large load 
customers should make appropriate and meaningful financial commitments and pay their full cost 
of service—should be applied to any and all FERC transmission-level interconnection processes, 
including the co-located arrangements discussed above.  Where regulated by FERC, new large 
 
26 Google, Re: Large Load Additions PJM Conceptual Proposal and Request for Member Feedback, at 2-4 (Aug. 
27, 2025), https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/committees-groups/cifp-lla/postings/20250828-stakeholder-
comments-cifp-lla.pdf.  
27 Utilities in at least eight states have adopted the principles embodied in Google’s Capacity Commitment 
Frameworks. 

--- PAGE 15 ---
 
 
 
 
15 
loads interconnecting to the transmission system should pay deposits that cover their study costs, 
deter the submission of speculative transmission-level interconnection requests, and cover harm 
to other interconnection customers if a load withdraws from the transmission-level interconnection 
process.   
Additionally, as in the Capacity Commitment Frameworks, any Commission action must 
comply with the Federal Power Act’s prohibition on undue discrimination.  As such, the 
Commission’s reforms should apply uniformly to all new large loads (above a certain MW-level 
threshold) that seek to interconnect to the transmission system, regardless of end-use sector.    
IV. 
CONCLUSION 
Secretary Wright’s letter raises several critically important issues.  In response, we urge 
the Commission to prioritize issues that will facilitate the planning, developing, and operation of 
digital and power infrastructure in the shortest time possible, including, in particular, incentivizing 
the integration of co-located or electrically proximate load and generation or load flexibility and 
demand response capabilities.  Doing so is necessary both to ensure that transmission rates, 
charges, and practices remain just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or preferential, as 
well as to ensure that the United States continues to play the world-leading role in the development 
of AI and other advanced computing capabilities.  The global AI race is clearly underway, and it 
is imperative that the United States seize this moment not just to win that race, but to lay a 
generational foundation for enduring economic and industrial competitiveness.  Google urges the 
Commission to do its part to ensure that the United States prevails. 
[Signatures on next page] 
 
 

--- PAGE 16 ---
 
 
 
 
16 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
/s/ Brian George 
Brian George 
Sr. Lead, US Energy Markets  
Google LLC 
655 New York Ave., NW 
Washington, DC 20001 
(202) 999-0990 
briangeorge@google.com  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated: November 21, 2025 
 
 
_______________ 
Nicholas M. Gladd 
Sarah Greenberg 
Rachel Neuburger 
Katie Mansur 
Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati 
1700 K Street NW 
Fifth Floor 
Washington, DC 20006 
(617) 598-7871 
ngladd@wsgr.com 
sgreenberg@wsgr.com 
rneuburger@wsgr.com 
cmansur@wsgr.com    
 
Counsel for Google LLC 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 17 ---
 
 
 
 
17 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
 
I hereby certify that I have this day served the foregoing document upon each person 
designated on the official service lists compiled by the Secretary of the Commission in these 
proceedings. 
 
Dated: November 21, 2025 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 
/s/ Rachel Neuburger 
Rachel Neuburger 
Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati 
1700 K Street NW 
Fifth Floor 
Washington, DC 20006 
 
  
 
 
 
 
