--- PAGE 1 ---
  UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate 
Transmission System 
) 
) 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
COMMENTS OF THE AES CORPORATION 
 
 
Pursuant to the Notice Inviting Comments issued on October 27, 2025 by the Federal 
Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC” or “Commission”),1 The AES Corporation (“AES”) 
hereby submits these comments in response to the advance notice of proposed rulemaking 
(“ANOPR”) released by the Secretary of Energy pursuant to section 403 of the Department of 
Energy (“DOE”) Organization Act.2   
I. 
BACKGROUND 
  
AES is a publicly-traded, diversified global energy company that indirectly owns electric 
generation, transmission, and distribution facilities, including approximately 17.7 gigawatts 
(“GW”) of generating capacity of thermal, battery energy storage, and renewable energy 
generating facilities located across the United States and two transmission-owning utilities.  In 
the United States, AES subsidiaries maintain an approximately 7.5 GW backlog of contracted 
projects under development, and an approximately 46 GW pipeline. AES’s generation-owning 
subsidiaries are top suppliers of energy to data center customers, having signed approximately 
10.5 GW worth of long-term wholesale power purchase agreements across business lines since 
2018.    
 
1 Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Notice Inviting Comments, 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 27, 2025).   
2 Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Advance Notice of Proposed 
Rulemaking, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 27, 2025) (“ANOPR”). 

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
 
In Ohio, AES is the majority owner of the Dayton Power and Light Company d/b/a AES 
Ohio (“AES Ohio”), a transmission and distribution public utility serving approximately 539,000 
retail customers in West-Central Ohio.  AES Ohio’s transmission facilities are under the 
operational control of PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (“PJM”) and transmission service over those 
facilities is provided under the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff (“PJM OATT”).  AES 
Ohio provides retail electric service to its customers under tariffs regulated by the Public Utilities 
Commission of Ohio (“PUCO”).  AES Ohio serves certain customers at retail via high voltage 
delivery points under its PUCO-jurisdictional Tariff D22—Electric Distribution Service—High 
Voltage and may enter into unique arrangements with customers for such service, subject to 
PUCO approval.3    AES Ohio also purchases power for resale to its retail customers who have 
not chosen a competitive supplier (Standard Service Offer electric service) through a competitive 
auction process regulated by the PUCO.4 
In Indiana, AES is the majority owner of the Indianapolis Power and Light d/b/a AES 
Indiana (“AES Indiana”), a vertically integrated public utility that provides electric utility service 
to over 520,000 retail customers located principally in and near the City of Indianapolis.  AES 
Indiana’s transmission facilities are subject to operational control of the Midcontinent 
Independent System Operator, Inc. (“MISO OATT”) and transmission service over those 
 
3 AES Ohio has retired or divested all of its generation assets except a 4.9% indirect ownership interest 
in the Ohio Valley Electric Corporation (resulting in indirect control of 117 MW). 
4 Electric customers within Ohio are permitted to purchase power under contract from a Competitive 
Retail Electric Service ("CRES") provider or from their local utility under SSO rates. The SSO 
generation supply is provided by third parties through a competitive bid process. Ohio utilities have the 
exclusive right to provide transmission and distribution services in their state-certified territories. While 
Ohio allows customers to choose retail generation providers, AES Ohio is required to provide retail 
generation service at SSO rates to any customer that has not signed a contract with a CRES provider or 
as a provider of last resort in the event of a CRES provider default. SSO rates are subject to rules and 
regulations of the PUCO and are established through a competitive bid process for the supply of power 
to SSO customers. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
 
facilities is provided under the MISO Open Access Transmission Tariff.  AES Indiana provides 
retail electric service to its customers under tariffs regulated by the Indiana Utility Regulatory 
Commission (“IURC”).  AES Indiana serves certain customers at retail via high voltage delivery 
points under its IURC-jurisdictional Rate HL: High Load Factor -- Primary Distribution, Sub-
Transmission and Transmission Voltages.  AES Indiana also may enter into Customer Specific 
Contracts for such service subject to IURC approval.  In addition to its transmission and 
distribution assets, AES Indiana owns over 3.9 GW of generation and battery capacity. 
Both AES Ohio and AES Indiana’s (AES Ohio and AES Indiana together, the “AES 
Utilities”) wholesale transmission rates are developed annually through formula rates filed with 
and approved by the Commission.5  However, the AES Utilities provide limited transmission 
service to entities other than on behalf of their retail customers. The vast majority of each utility’s 
transmission service is provided to themselves to facilitate each utility’s obligations as load 
serving entities for their retail customers.  In general, when developing its bundled retail rates, 
AES Indiana includes transmission plant and expenses and credits transmission revenues 
received from its FERC formula rate to its cost of service.  AES Ohio recovers the transmission-
related costs imposed on, or charged to, it by PJM (including the Network Integration 
Transmission Service rate developed through its FERC formula rate) through its retail 
Transmission Cost Recovery Rider included in its PUCO-jurisdictional retail rates. 
II. 
INTRODUCTION 
AES appreciates the Commission’s focus on the interconnection of large loads and the 
interplay between these loads and co-located generation resources.  AES believes that the 
 
5 PJM OATT Attachment H-15, H-15A PT. 1 – 4, H-15B (providing AES Ohio’s Formula Rate); MISO 
OATT Attachments O-AESI and GG-AESI (providing AES Indiana’s Formula Rate). 

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
 
ANOPR raises important questions about large load interconnections and associated issues, 
including co-location of generation and protections for existing customers.     
The AES Utilities are experiencing unprecedented load growth driven by data center 
additions in their respective service territories.  As provided to PJM, AES Ohio currently 
forecasts over 6.3 gigawatts of new load by 2032, which will nearly triple AES Ohio’s current 
peak.  AES Indiana forecasted to MISO nearly 1.9 gigawatts of new load by 2029, representing 
a seventy-five percent increase to its existing peak.  The AES Utilities are committed to fulfilling 
their obligation to serve these large loads in an efficient and cost-effective manner, while 
protecting existing customers from the risk if such customers do not reach their requested level 
of service.  To date, the AES Utilities have entered into agreements with data center customers 
representing over 2.8 GW of load additions (and are currently studying interconnections and 
negotiating agreements for over 5.4 GW of load additions), and thus have direct experience with 
many of the issues raised by the ANOPR.  Similarly, AES’s generation-owning subsidiaries 
outside of Ohio and Indiana are some of the largest suppliers of clean energy to data center 
customers, and AES sees co-location as a tool to be deployed where needed to accelerate the 
deployment of generation to meet growing wholesale power demand.  
III. 
COMMENTS ON CERTAIN DOE PRINCIPLES FOR REFORM 
 
The ANOPR states that due to the unprecedented current and expected growth of large 
loads seeking to interconnect, and to provide open and non-discriminatory access to the 
transmission system, it has become necessary to standardize interconnection procedures and 
agreements for such loads.6   AES shares the view that transparency and regulatory certainty are 
 
6 ANOPR at P 12. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
 
necessary elements for effective market participation and investment, whether such investment 
involves generation, transmission and distribution, or load.   However, AES also recognizes that 
each large load addition presents unique circumstances depending on the region in which the 
load is located and any state jurisdictional issues.  AES recommends that any Commission action 
taken on the principles proposed in the ANOPR be done in a manner that preserves contractual 
flexibility between parties and recognizes the technical and operational nuances of the load and 
generation applications within the regions in which they are located.  AES also believes that the 
Commission should exercise caution to avoid potential jurisdictional pitfalls that could 
ultimately frustrate the ANOPR’s goal of speed to power and the industry’s need for certainty on 
approach.  AES addresses certain of the ANOPR’s principles below.  
A. 
Jurisdictional Considerations (Principle 1) 
The interconnection of large loads to utility systems presents nuanced jurisdictional 
questions that are not easily resolved. If the Commission asserts jurisdiction over load 
interconnection processes that have historically been state-jurisdictional or issues a standalone 
rulemaking without considering existing stakeholder efforts, then the ANOPR’s objective of 
expediting large load interconnections in a non-discriminatory manner may be delayed.  In order 
to interconnect new large loads as quickly and efficiently as possible, market participants need 
regulatory certainty, and the potential for protracted disputes concerning jurisdiction would 
thwart such certainty.  Accordingly, AES respectfully recommends that the Commission develop 
a robust record and consider existing stakeholder and state initiatives before seeking to 
standardize large load interconnection.7   
 
7 AES is concerned that establishing standardized readiness requirements and withdrawal penalties (i.e. 
ANOPR Principle 4) may not properly address challenges associated with speculative large load 
 

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
 
However, there are areas that are squarely within the Commission’s jurisdiction where 
Commission guidance could support the existing efforts to interconnect large loads to the 
transmission system.  For example, Section 205 of the Federal Power Act authorizes FERC to 
require a public utility to file any contracts that could significantly affect transmission rates.   
AES has, and continues to file, its large load construction service agreements (“CSA”) for 
Commission approval under Section 205 when such agreements include provisions requiring the 
customer to pay for significant transmission network upgrades if a CSA is terminated.8  There is 
a clear role for the Commission in ensuring that certain cost-recovery mechanisms are just and 
reasonable (such as cost recovery related to the construction of network upgrades if a large load 
abandons the interconnection prior to taking retail service).9  AES details its current process for 
interconnecting large loads, and potential Commission enhancements, in Part B, below.  In 
contrast, agreements to provide retail electric service (regardless of whether such agreements 
involve service under a high voltage tariff) are state jurisdictional because (among other reasons) 
such service necessarily involves service over distribution facilities to the end user.  
The Commission also has jurisdiction over the interconnection of the generation and 
storage capacity necessary to serve large loads.  Significant additions to existing generation and 
storage capacity are required to reliably serve the expected large load additions over the next 
decade and certain regions are already facing capacity constraints.  The Commission should 
 
projects. Standardized penalties may also fail to consider the different financial positions that large 
loads may have relative to each other. In AES’s experience, these challenges can vary from region to 
region and are best resolved by power providers and transmission owners, in partnership with their state 
commissions or other relevant retail authorities.  For example, the PUCO recently approved an AEP 
Ohio tariff that imposes certain financial and usage requirements intended to ensure that only data 
center projects that have achieved a certain degree of certainty are considered for interconnection.   
8 16 U.S.C. § 824d(c); See Cleveland v. FERC, 773 F.2d 1368, 1376 (D.C. Cir. 1985) 
9  E.g., Dayton Power and Light Company d/b/a AES Ohio, CSA Filing, Docket No. ER25-192-000 
(filed Oct. 23, 2024). 

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
 
continue to utilize its clear jurisdiction over the generator interconnection process to address 
existing barriers to new generation and storage capacity entry, as these barriers continue to hinder 
AES’s and other developers’ ability to deliver much needed energy capacity to meet rising 
wholesale demand.  Failing to address these issues will jeopardize the ability to serve large loads 
(regardless of the speed at which they interconnect) or could lead to significant volatility in the 
energy and capacity markets.  To meet the unprecedented demand growth over the next decade, 
AES believes that Commission focus is needed on expediting all possible solutions (including 
generation and battery capacity, demand response, targeted curtailment, and grid enhancing 
technologies). 
B. 
Load Interconnection Standardization and Cost Assignment for Network 
Upgrades (Principles 4 and 8) 
As described in the ANOPR, U.S. electricity demand is expected to grow at an 
extraordinary pace, most notably from large loads associated with data centers.10  In AES’s 
experience, data center customers are primarily concerned with (1) the speed at which they can 
receive the first MW of service, (2) the total amount of MWs that can be served at a given site, 
and (3) the cost of providing service.  In AES’s view, significant one-size-fits-all changes to the 
existing cost assignment paradigm for required network upgrades (i.e. 100% costs borne by the 
customer) are not needed to achieve the above considerations.  Utilities such as AES Ohio and 
AES Indiana are tasked with building, maintaining, and operating the grid infrastructure 
necessary to provide service to all customers and are compensated for the risks associated with 
such by earning a reasonable return on their investments.  These utilities are also incentivized to 
meet new load customer goals so that they can continue to upgrade their networks and spread 
 
10 ANOPR at Section II.A. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 
 
network costs over a larger load base, which in turn benefits existing customers.  If a utility 
cannot meet customer needs, data centers and other large loads are likely to relocate to different 
utility service territories.  Thus, speed of interconnection is already an important consideration 
for utilities and service providers.   
AES recognizes that there are multiple just and reasonable approaches to processing 
interconnection requests from large loads. However, to date, the AES Utilities have experienced 
success interconnecting large loads to the grid within such customers’ requested timeframes in a 
manner that is tailored to also protect existing customers.  To assist the Commission with 
developing a robust record in this proceeding, AES provides detail on its current approach, along 
with suggestions for Commission enhancement, below.  
1. 
AES Utilities Approach to Large Load Interconnection 
 
 As utilities providing large load interconnections, AES Ohio and AES Indiana have 
several guiding principles: (1) all interconnections should be performed in a safe and reliable 
manner, (2) to the extent possible, existing customers should be protected from cost-shifting risks 
associated with large load additions, and (3) where possible, new additions should be designed 
to reinforce any weaknesses in the network.  During the interconnection process, large load 
customers’ requests for service change frequently, including for matters related to the 
configuration of their sites and the ramping period.  While the customer is refining their project, 
the interconnecting transmission owner is actively studying its system to determine the system 
upgrades necessary to serve such load.  In AES’s experience, large load interconnection is a 
dynamic process between multiple parties to identify the best site, configuration and size to meet 

--- PAGE 9 ---
9 
 
each party’s goals, needs, and capabilities.11  Notably, each interconnection is unique depending 
on the site, cost of facilities necessary to provide service, and load type.  The risks for the utility, 
developer, new large load customer, and existing customers reflect such uniqueness.    
For the AES Utilities, a key part of the interconnection process is the negotiation of (1) 
the CSA and (2) retail electric service agreement.  The CSA provides the terms and conditions 
pursuant to which the utility will construct the grid facilities necessary to serve the large load.  
Because the interconnection processes are dynamic and flexible, in many cases, AES Ohio and 
AES Indiana can work with a large load customer to site their project in a location that provides 
reliability benefits for the system, supports growth for the economies of the service territories, 
and maintains or potentially lowers what existing customer rates would have been absent the 
project.   
Concurrent with negotiation of a CSA, AES Ohio and AES Indiana and their large load 
customers negotiate the terms of the applicable state-jurisdictional electric service agreement.  
These agreements provide the terms and conditions pursuant to which the utility will provide 
retail service to the large load.  Typically, these agreements are executed while the large load 
customer’s facility is still in development and in advance of other important milestones.  Thus, 
the utility and existing customers are exposed to the risk that the customer will fail to take the 
level of service requested or will abandon the project.  In order to protect existing customers and 
the financial integrity of the utility, AES Ohio and AES Indiana require such agreements to 
 
11 The AES Utilities have been successful partnering with data center customers to locate data centers in 
areas that are both beneficial for needed system reinforcements for the zone and existing customers, in 
addition to the data center customer.  The AES Utilities are able to do so because, in their respective 
service territories, they are well positioned to understand the nuances of their respective systems, along 
with their customers’ needs, and have a flexible, dynamic process in place. 

--- PAGE 10 ---
10 
 
include minimum load requirements and exit or termination fees.  AES Ohio and AES Indiana 
balance the projected cost of providing service to the customer with the minimum load 
requirement to develop an appropriate contract term and termination fee (In Indiana, there are 
also state statutory rules regarding customer responsibility for utility costs).      
2. Interconnection Risks and Potential Commission Enhancement 
 
From the AES Utilities’ perspective, the primary risk that needs to be addressed prior to 
the commencement of service, is the potential for a large load customer to take less service than 
requested, resulting in the construction of grid upgrades that are no longer used and useful (due 
to the customer either lowering their demand or abandoning the project).  As described above, 
for large load customers, the terms of interconnection to the utility system are typically one of 
the key initial milestones for their project ahead of other key development needs (including 
securing separate energy supply when needed).12  Thus, for the utility, there is a significant risk 
that the large load customer is unable to meet its requested ramp and load schedule due to the 
customer failing to meet other development needs that occur later (water rights, zoning 
approvals, energy supply procurement, among others).  Considering this risk, AES Ohio and 
AES Indiana require large load customers to be responsible for the costs incurred if the large 
load abandons their project.  Thus, under AES Ohio and AES Indiana’s current practices, if a 
CSA is terminated, the large load customer will reimburse the utility for the development and 
 
12 In AES’ experience, even at vertically-integrated utilities, large load customers are willing to enter 
into CSAs for necessary grid enhancements prior to securing the terms of an electric service agreement 
associated with providing energy and capacity necessary to serve them.  As noted above, for large load 
customers, a key priority is the first MW of service.  To secure that first MW as quickly as possible (and 
start construction of the grid facilities as quickly as possible), many large loads are willing to pay for 
such grid enhancements prior to having certainty regarding their energy supply needs. 

--- PAGE 11 ---
11 
 
construction costs it incurred for the transmission and distribution facilities necessary for 
interconnection (minus any salvage value) up to a cap that includes a contingency. 
As discussed above, the CSA is a critical component to establishing large load 
interconnection and to protecting existing customers, and the AES has filed these CSAs with the 
Commission when necessary.  However, AES recognizes that other utilities have taken different 
approaches from the AES Utilities,13 and that questions remain as to how certain customer 
protections (i.e. termination or load shortfall payments made by the large load customer) would 
be accounted for and reflected in transmission rates.  Accordingly, AES believes that the 
Commission could provide certainty to the market by issuing guidance, whether in the form of a 
policy statement or otherwise, regarding how termination fees from construction service 
agreements associated with transmission network upgrades should be accounted for in 
transmission rates.  The Commission could also provide certainty by expeditiously acting in 
dockets involving construction service agreements (or similar agreements) with open questions 
currently before the Commission.  In addition, many utilities include minimum load provisions 
in their retail electric service agreements with large loads, with associated penalties if minimum 
load thresholds are not met.  To the extent these provisions trigger, the Commission should 
provide guidance regarding whether such load should be reflected in the derivation of 
transmission rates.  
C. 
Co-location Incentives and Operational Limitations (Principles 3, 5 and 6) 
Several of the ANOPR principles address co-location through the inclusion of “hybrid 
facilities,” which the ANOPR defines as loads “that share a point of interconnection with new or 
 
13 See, e.g., PECO Energy Company, TSA Filing, Docket No. ER25-3492-000 (filed Sept. 23, 2025). 

--- PAGE 12 ---
12 
 
existing generation facilities.”14  AES believes that there can be both system and time-to-power 
benefits associated with co-location, and AES supports the ANOPR’s goal of incentivizing the 
co-location of generation and load, where appropriate.  However, AES believes that any 
incentives should adhere to two guiding principles: First, any incentives should be technology 
neutral and should not disincentivize other activities that support the grid, such as the 
development of energy storage or the adoption of innovative technologies.  Second, these 
incentives should not unduly harm other customers on the system, whether through cost-shifting, 
or otherwise.15   
AES believes that the Commission should take a holistic approach to ensure that any 
rules surrounding co-location are developed to allow for flexibility in configuration and 
contractual arrangements.  In this regard, the Commission should first clarify the definitions it 
proposes to adopt and ensure that such definitions capture and respect regional and operational 
nuances.  Any proposed rule should therefore seek further comment on what constitutes co-
location for the purposes of the reforms proposed in this proceeding, as the definition of “hybrid 
project” proposed by the ANOPR may not reflect the range of potential configurations.  For 
example, in some regions, generation and load may seek to share a common point of 
interconnection but may be separately metered and interact independently of one another vis a 
vis the transmission grid, therefore arguably both co-located and not co-located.  In other 
instances, the generation could be physically islanded, without any grid interconnection. As 
 
14 ANOPR at P 12; See id. at PP 15, 22, 23.  
15 While both important, generation and load interconnection are separate issues that do not necessarily 
need to be addressed together.  For example, AES believes that customer protection mechanisms to 
address the risk of cost-shifting must be in place regardless of whether large loads are co-located with 
generating facilities.   See Part III.B. 

--- PAGE 13 ---
13 
 
discussed above, regulatory certainty is paramount, and AES believes that the Commission 
should avoid adopting a strict definition of “hybrid” or “co-located” facilities without first 
considering the issues raised around collocation in other ongoing Commission proceedings and 
within the RTO/ISO stakeholder processes.16   
The Commission should also take a flexible approach to establishing any potential 
incentives designed to unlock the benefits of co-location arrangements.  In ANOPR Principal 5, 
the Commission highlights one potential incentive mechanism in the form of faster time to power 
through physical limitations on injection and withdrawal rights.  Effectively, the ANOPR 
proposes that the generation and the load install system protection facilities and treat injection 
and withdrawal rights on a “net” basis.   AES believes that the Commission should develop a 
more fulsome record to evaluate with this approach, and ensure that constituency between any 
proposed rules.17  Physical limitations may make sense in some instances, and it is true that a 
critical factor in determining the need for network upgrades is whether the load will require grid 
support (i.e. withdrawal rights) during periods when any collocated generation is unavailable.  
However, there are other circumstances where alternative approaches to incentivize co-location 
may also be reasonable, and Commission should explore other incentives without the need for 
physical limitations that effectively island large quantities of new generation.18  Financial 
mechanisms to encourage certain behavior or account for deviations, without the need for 
 
16 See, e.g., Large Loads Co-Located at Generating Facilities, Notice of Commissioner-Led Technical 
Conference, Docket No. AD24-11-000 (issued Aug. 2, 2024) (“Large Load Technical Conference”).  
17 AES notes that, elsewhere in the ANOPR, the Commission suggests that certain services should be 
based on “peak,” rather than “net” demand.  See ANOPR at P 29 (Principle 12).  
18 Although the ANOPR suggests that collocated generation would be fully compensated by the market 
for ancillary services, more clarity is required as to how this compensation would work if the generator 
were limited to reduced, or no, injection rights. 

--- PAGE 14 ---
14 
 
potentially costly additional system protection equipment, should also be considered.19  AES 
notes that some of these issues are already before the Commission in existing proceedings, 
including the Commission’s FPA Section 206 Proceeding addressing co-location of large loads 
within PJM.20   To promote regulatory certainty, the Commission should ensure that any rules 
developed through this proceeding related to collocated generation and transmission service 
address and take into account the records as well.  
D. 
Expedited Studies for Certain Facilities (Principle 7) 
AES believes that both load and generation should be subject to the curtailment rules 
outlined in the relevant reliability standards. AES also believes that an “all of the above” 
approach is needed to satisfy the grid’s growing need for supply. Accordingly, the Commission 
should continue to develop a robust record to understand the operational and technical 
capabilities of large loads and collocated facilities both in the short term and over time. 
E. 
Co-location with Existing Generation (Principle 10) 
AES believes that the Commission should distinguish between co-location of loads with 
new versus existing generation, as the impacts to existing customers will differ.   With respect to 
existing generation, AES believes that the system operator should be required to study that 
generation as a retirement if it is going to be effectively taken behind-the-meter in a manner that 
removes the energy and capacity benefits from the market.  AES believes that this is consistent 
 
19 AES Ohio highlighted some of the potential benefits in its response to the PJM Show Cause 
Proceeding. See Answer of the Dayton Power and Light Company d/b/a AES Ohio, Docket Nos. EL25-
49-000, et. al. (filed March 24, 2025).  AES urges the Commission to develop a comprehensive record, 
incorporating the testimony from the Large Load Technical Conference. As evidenced by the Large 
Load Technical Conference, and in responses to the PJM Show Cause Proceeding, there is a clear desire 
throughout the industry for clear rules around cost allocation and the assessment of transmission 
charges on large loads. 
20 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., et. al., 190 FERC ¶ 61,115 (2025) (“PJM Show Cause Proceeding”). 

--- PAGE 15 ---
15 
 
with the Commission goal of ensuring reliability, particularly in light of the generation supply 
shortages forecasted in certain regions for the next few years.  Where at all possible, the 
Commission should encourage the entry of new generation into the market to ensure that supply 
catches up with demand.  
IV. 
CONCLUSION 
AES appreciates the opportunity to comment on this important proceeding and 
respectfully requests that the Commission act in accordance with AES’s Comments.  AES 
looks forward to working with the Commission and other stakeholders to ensure that the 
industry is able to accelerate the interconnection of large loads and needed generation in a 
manner that promotes investment, ensures regulatory certainty and, above all, provides for the 
safe, reliable, and affordable delivery of energy. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/ Ben L. Tejblum        
Ben L. Tejblum 
Angela Amos 
William M. Rappolt 
The AES Corporation 
4300 Wilson Blvd 
Arlington, VA 22203 
ben.tejblum@aes.com 
angela.amos@aes.com 
william.rappolt@aes.com 
 
 
 
Dated: November 21, 2025 
