--- PAGE 1 ---
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate
Transmission System 
 
 
 
PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., et al. 
 
 
Large Loads Co-Located at Generating Facilities 
 
 
Constellation Energy Generation, LLC 
 
     v. 
 
PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. 
)  
)  
 
 
 
)  
 
 
)  
 
 
)  
)  
)  
) 
) 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
(Not consolidated) 
 
 
 
Docket No. EL25-49-000 
 
 
Docket No. AD24-11-000 
 
 
 
 
Docket No. EL25-20-000 
(Consolidated) 
SUPPORTING COMMENTS OF CONSTELLATION ENERGY GENERATION, LLC  
Constellation welcomes Secretary of Energy Chris Wright’s proposed ANOPR1 and offers 
these comments to support (with limited qualifications) its fourteen principles “that are intended 
to ensure efficient, timely, and non-discriminatory [large] load interconnections”2 and the adoption 
of a final rule on the Secretary’s requested timeline. More immediately, “given the urgency of this 
issue,” the Commission should “build upon these principles”3 by issuing a full order in the PJM 
Show Cause proceedings4 consistent with the ANOPR’s guidance based upon the extensive record 
 
1 U.S. Department of Energy, Secretary of Energy, Letter to FERC re: “Ensuring the Timely and Orderly 
Interconnection of Large Loads,” Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (Oct. 23, 2025) (issued pursuant to 
Department of Energy Organization Act § 403, 42 U.S.C. § 7173) (cover letter, “Secretary’s Letter,” and Advanced 
Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, “ANOPR”).  
2 Secretary’s Letter at 1-2. 
3 Id. at 2. 
4 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Docket No. EL25-49-000, Large Loads Co-Located at Generating Facilities, Docket 
No. AD24-11-000, Constellation Energy Generation, LLC v. PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Docket No. EL25-20-
000 (consolidated) (collectively, “PJM Show Cause proceedings”).  

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
already established in that consolidated docket. Alternatively, if the Commission believes it needs 
additional time to resolve the PJM Show Cause proceedings, it should issue a targeted PJM order 
that resolves the few most critical issues that continue to delay large load interconnections in PJM.5 
This is the Commission’s best path forward to promptly carry out the imperatives of the ANOPR 
in PJM as the Commission works in parallel on a comprehensive final rule, ensuring that America 
continues to lead the AI race while preserving reliable service. 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Constellation agrees with the motivations and principles outlined in the ANOPR and the 
need for clear rules to allow the timely interconnection of large loads and their co-location with 
generators. Constellation urges the Commission to issue a final comprehensive rule, consistent 
with the ANOPR, by April 30, 2026. We highlight three points at the outset: 
First, the Commission should affirm its jurisdiction over large load interconnections to the 
transmission system generally and to hybrid facilities (i.e., the generator and load sharing an 
interconnection to the interstate grid) in particular. Federal authority over the interconnection of 
hybrid facilities is straightforward given that the shared generator interconnection already is 
Commission-jurisdictional (see ANOPR Principle 1). The Commission should reject any argument 
by Transmission Owners (or others) that low-voltage facilities that step down the power from the 
interstate grid at the point of interconnection to the load are outside the Commission’s jurisdiction. 
Contrary to such a contention, the Federal Power Act (“FPA”) gives the Commission jurisdiction 
over “the transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce,”6 which includes “unbundled 
 
5 Today, Constellation is also filing a motion in the PJM Show Cause proceedings to request an immediate 
Commission order consistent with the ANOPR and these comments. 
6 16 U.S.C. § 824(b)(1). 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
retail transmissions.”7 Thus, the Commission has jurisdiction over the timing and procedures 
applicable to large load interconnections to the transmission system. 
Second, the Commission should reject undue discrimination against existing generation. 
This includes “Bring Your Own Generation” proposals in which only new generation resources 
are eligible to participate. It also includes reliability studies that would apply disproportionate 
requirements to existing generation as compared to new generation (see ANOPR Principle 10). 
Discriminatory policies in favor of new generation inevitably lead to the premature retirements of 
existing generation, including highly reliable dispatchable and baseload generation, including 
many nuclear plants that have struggled in recent years to remain economic. Resource adequacy 
requires both new generation and retention of existing resources to ensure the lights stay on and 
that all load is served. New and existing resources should be able to compete on a level playing 
field to serve new load. 
Third, the Commission should not wait until a final rule to implement the ANOPR 
principles in PJM, where data center development has been stymied by disagreements and 
uncertainty over who controls the timing and nature of large load interconnections, and over the 
terms of any ensuing transmission service. The current load interconnection process in PJM in 
practice cedes control of all large load interconnections to the discretion of Transmission Owners, 
regardless of the facilities to which the load proposes to interconnect. Some Transmission Owners 
have simply refused to participate in PJM’s studies to analyze reliability impacts; and some, acting 
under unfiled interconnection study procedures, have changed their entire construct and timetable 
 
7 New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1, 16 (2002).  

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
for processing load studies.8 Some Transmission Owners have refused to allow new load 
connections unless the load agrees to the Transmission Owner’s favored configuration or agrees 
to take other services offered by the Transmission Owner that the load does not need or wish to 
take and should not be required to take.9 
The ANOPR proposes to resolve those issues and set forth clear rules for interconnection 
study processes and for hybrid load and generation configurations connected to transmission 
facilities—the same issues that were the impetus for Constellation’s original complaint filed 
12 months ago in Docket No. EL25-20. Constellation supports a final large load interconnection 
rule on the Secretary’s timeline, but in the meantime, the Commission should act first where it 
already has a fully developed record. In PJM, the Commission still has pending a nine-month-old 
preliminary finding that “the existing [PJM] Tariff appears to be unjust and unreasonable or unduly 
discriminatory or preferential because it does not contain provisions addressing with sufficient 
clarity or consistency the rates, terms, and conditions of service that apply to co-location 
arrangements.”10 After already soliciting comments in a national proceeding on large loads 
(Docket No. AD24-11-000) and receiving full briefing on Constellation’s complaint seeking 
clarity in the PJM Tariff (Docket No. EL25-49-000), the Commission further expanded the record 
in the PJM Show Cause proceeding with 38 comprehensive briefing questions covering issues 
 
8 For evidence and discussion of Transmission Owners’ refusal to cooperate, see Complaint Requesting Fast Track 
Processing of Constellation Energy Generation, LLC, Docket No. EL25-20-000, at 6-9 (filed Nov. 22, 2024) 
(“Constellation Complaint”) (citing Protest of Constellation Energy Generation, LLC, Docket No. EL24-149-000, 
Exh. 2 (correspondence with Exelon) (filed Oct. 30, 2024); Motion to Lodge of Constellation Energy Generation, 
LLC, Docket No. EL24-149-000, Exh. 1 (November 12, 2024 Exelon Letter) (filed Nov. 18, 2024)); see also 
Constellation Complaint, Exh. 5, Declaration of James R. McCoskey (detailing interaction with Exelon to study co-
location projects). 
9 See Atl. City Elec. Co., 190 FERC ¶ 61,109 (2025) (rejecting Exelon Transmission Owners’ attempt to force all co-
located load to take full transmission service). 
10 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 190 FERC ¶ 61,115, at PP 74-75 (2025) (“PJM Show Cause Order”). 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
nearly identical to those now raised in the ANOPR.11 The Commission originally targeted late 
June 2025 for an order,12 and has reiterated its intent to resolve that matter expediently.13 The 
Commission should now issue a ruling in that pending proceeding implementing the ANOPR’s 
principles, even as it also initiates a rulemaking to apply those principles outside the PJM region.14  
Certainly, the ANOPR, which is intended to expeditiously resolve some of the most 
controversial issues confronting large load interconnections, should not be the cause of further 
delay in PJM. According to the Secretary, the ANOPR “is not intended in any way to discourage 
public utilities from making filings to address these and similar issues under FPA section 205.”15 
If the ANOPR is not intended to discourage public utilities from filing new proposals under section 
205, the Commission should not be discouraged from ruling on pending proceedings under section 
206 where it already has a comprehensive record, made a preliminary finding that the existing 
tariff is unjust, unreasonable and unduly discriminatory, and indicated it is poised to act.   
 
11 Compare id. P 88 (posing 38 briefing questions), with ANOPR at ¶¶ 17-32 (positing 14 principles).  
12 PJM Show Cause Order, 190 FERC ¶ 61,115 at P 91 (estimating that the Commission would be able to issue its 
decision within approximately three months of the filing of Tariff revisions, which the Commission required to be 
submitted within thirty days of its order (i.e., by March 24, 2025)). 
13 See, e.g., PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 191 FERC ¶ 61,025, at P 30, n.106 (2025) (“We fully intend to act as 
expeditiously as possible to address those issues, as we know how important it is to investors, utilities, and all 
interested parties to have regulatory certainty.”); see FERC, November 20, 2025 Open Meeting, YOUTUBE 
(Nov. 20, 2025), at 19:39 https://www.ferc.gov/news-events/events/november-20-2025-open-meeting-10022024 
(Commissioner David Rosner expressing he is “confident that we can make some progress” on the open co-location 
proceeding in PJM); Transcript of Oct. 16, 2025 Open Meeting at 7:14-18 (Then-Chairman David Rosner states 
“I’m very optimistic that the Commission will be ready to act later this year on our work on colocation. 
Commissioners See and Chang and I have been working diligently on that, and I’m really happy with the progress 
we have been making.”), available at: https://www.ferc.gov/media/transcript-october-16-2025-open-meeting. 
14 Constellation recognizes that the Commission has undergone changes in leadership and Commissioners in the 
intervening months, as well as a government shutdown. Now that those transitional issues are behind it, the 
Commission can focus on completing the proceeding. 
15 ANOPR at ¶ 32. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
Accordingly, as the Commission develops a final comprehensive rule on the ANOPR,16 
the Commission should also immediately issue an order in the PJM Show Cause proceedings as 
set forth below in Section II.A., adopting the Commission’s preliminary finding that the PJM Tariff 
is unjust and unreasonable and establishing a replacement rate based on the record in those 
proceedings that reflects the ANOPR’s guidance, with potential additional measures to enhance 
resource adequacy and reliability. The Commission should focus on establishing transparent 
processes that ensure that new large load can be promptly interconnected while reliability is 
maintained, and on developing transmission rates that (i) are just, reasonable and not unduly 
discriminatory and (ii) create strong incentives for load to locate in the most efficient places, where 
network upgrades will be minimized. This approach will serve the dual goals of protecting 
consumers from unnecessary upgrade costs and timely, effective, and reliable connection of load 
consistent with the national interest in winning the AI race.   
Alternatively, if the Commission chooses not to issue a full replacement rate in the PJM 
Show Cause proceedings, it should issue a partial replacement rate as set forth below in 
Section II.B as soon as possible that calls balls and strikes on three critical issues consistent with 
the record and the ANOPR (all of which should also be part of a comprehensive order on the 
merits): (1) clarifying jurisdictional boundaries consistent with the ANOPR, (2) rejecting a one-
size-fits-all firm transmission regime based on gross rates, and (3) requiring non-discriminatory, 
 
16 The Commission might also consider whether its rule should focus, at least initially, on the Regional Transmission 
Organization (“RTO”) markets rather than to every Transmission Owner in the nation where, in some cases, the 
finding under section 206 of the FPA that current rules are unjust and unreasonable may lack sufficient record 
evidence or present a more difficult showing. In PJM, by contrast, the Commission has a comprehensive record of 
evidence that the existing PJM Tariff is unjust and unreasonable because it lacks clear rules for co-location and large 
load interconnections. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
timely, and meaningful cooperation by Transmission Owners on processing large load and co-
location studies.  
COMMENTS 
I. 
Constellation Supports the ANOPR’s Fourteen Principles with Limited Qualifications 
Constellation supports a final large load interconnection rule arising out of the ANOPR on 
the Secretary’s expedited timeline and offers these comments in support of the ANOPR’s fourteen 
principles, with a few qualifications specified herein. 
Principle 1—Confirming Federal Jurisdiction Over Large Load Interconnections to 
Interstate Transmission Facilities 
Constellation agrees with the ANOPR’s principle that the Commission has jurisdiction 
over interconnections directly to transmission facilities.17 That principle is consistent with the 
FPA, which gives the Commission exclusive jurisdiction over “the transmission of electric energy 
in interstate commerce.”18 Interconnection with the interstate transmission grid falls within that 
scope. As the Commission has long recognized, “interconnection is part and parcel of transmission 
of electric energy in interstate commerce, and thus interconnection service is part and parcel of 
jurisdictional transmission service.”19  
Interconnection of hybrid facilities, in particular, provide a crystal clear case for federal 
authority. The ANOPR defines hybrid facilities as large loads “seeking to share a point of 
 
17 ANOPR at ¶ 18. While the ANOPR adds that this principle is “consistent with the Commission’s seven-factor test,” 
the Commission need not resort to that test to conclude that it has jurisdiction over large load interconnections to 
interstate transmission facilities, as explained further below. 
18 16 U.S.C § 824(b)(1). 
19 Pac. Gas & Elec. Co., 115 FERC ¶ 61,193, at P 36 (2006); see also Duke Energy Progress, LLC v. FERC, 106 F.4th 
1145, 114 (D.C. Cir. 2024) (“Among the transactions that FERC regulates is the connection of a new generation 
facility to the physical infrastructure owned by a Grid Operator.”); Nat’l Ass’n of Regul. Util. Comm’rs v. FERC, 
475 F.3d 1277, 1280 (D.C. Cir. 2007) (holding that, “[b]y establishing standard [interconnection] agreements,” 
FERC properly “exercised its jurisdiction over the terms of those relationships”) (emphasis in original). 

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 
interconnection with new or existing generation facilities.”20 Hybrid large loads are transmission 
customers that can draw power both from the co-located generator as well as the grid. This hybrid 
configuration is one that PJM has itself proposed in the PJM Show Cause proceedings (PJM Option 
2).21 It looks like this: 
 
Regulation of the interconnection between a generator and the interstate transmission grid 
is well within the scope of the Commission’s jurisdiction.22 Because the generator’s point of 
interconnection is FERC-jurisdictional, so too must be the load’s. It would be inconsistent for the 
shared point of interconnection to be FERC-jurisdictional for the generator but not for the large 
load, and the Commission does not lose its jurisdiction over the interconnection simply because a 
 
20 ANOPR at ¶ 12. 
21 See April 23, 2025 Constellation Answer at 38. 
22 Pac. Gas & Elec. Co., 115 FERC ¶ 61,193 at P 36. 

--- PAGE 9 ---
9 
load also happens to interconnect to the interstate grid at the same point. It is irrelevant that the 
load is an end-user of electricity. While the retail sale of energy directly to a load co-located with 
a generator at the same point of interconnection is not Commission-jurisdictional, the transmission 
of electricity to the co-located load at the shared point of interconnection is Commission-
jurisdictional.   
Indeed, the Supreme Court has long made clear that the Commission has jurisdiction over 
all transmissions, including transmissions to end users. “[T]he FPA authorizes FERC’s jurisdiction 
over interstate transmissions, without regard to whether the transmissions are sold to a reseller or 
directly to a consumer.”23 That is because “[t]here is no language in the statute limiting FERC’s 
transmission jurisdiction to the wholesale market, although the statute does limit FERC’s sale 
jurisdiction to that at wholesale.”24 Accordingly, as the Commission has itself recognized, it has 
jurisdiction over interconnections “based on the nature of interconnection to the transmission 
system generally, not the purpose for such interconnection (i.e., to make a wholesale sale or to 
make a wholesale or retail purchase).”25 Therefore, the transmission of energy from the interstate 
grid to a hybrid facility, and the interconnection of that facility to the grid, is well within the 
Commission’s jurisdiction. It does not matter that the energy is ultimately transmitted to an end 
user (i.e., the large load) because the Commission’s transmission jurisdiction is not “specifically 
confined to the wholesale market.”26 
 
23 New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. at 20.  
24 Id. at 17. 
25 PJM Show Cause Order, 190 FERC ¶ 61,115 at P 72. 
26 Id. at 20; see also Nat’l Ass’n of Regul. Util. Comm’rs, 475 F.3d at 1282 (upholding Commission’s jurisdiction over 
a “transmission facility [that] also engages in local distribution … insofar as the interconnections are ‘for the purpose 
of making sales of electric energy for resale in interstate commerce” (quoting Standardization of Generator 
Interconnection Agreements & Procedures, Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103, at P 804 (2003) (“Order 
No. 2003”))). 

--- PAGE 10 ---
10 
While hybrid facilities present a straightforward case for Commission jurisdiction, the 
Commission also has jurisdiction over the interconnection of large loads to transmission facilities 
even when they are not part of a hybrid facility or co-located with a generator, as in this image: 
 
The ANOPR presents a compelling case for federal jurisdiction over the interconnection 
between a large load and the interstate transmission grid, and its reasoning does not depend on 
whether the large load is a hybrid facility.27 The nature of the interconnection between a large load 
and the interstate grid is no different from the nature of the interconnection between a hybrid 
facility and the interstate grid. Each is “part and parcel of transmission of electric energy in 
interstate commerce,”28 and the Commission is fully within its jurisdiction to regulate it. 
The Commission should reject any argument that low-voltage facilities that step down the 
power from the interstate grid at the point of interconnection to the load are outside the 
Commission’s jurisdiction. Such step-down facilities are necessary components of the 
 
27 ANOPR at ¶¶ 13-16. 
28 Pac. Gas & Elec. Co., 115 FERC ¶ 61,193 at P 36. 

--- PAGE 11 ---
11 
interconnection—a clear transmission facility. The FPA’s plain text gives the Commission 
jurisdiction over “the transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce,”29 including 
transmissions to end-users, and to remove the step-down facilities from the Commission’s 
jurisdiction would improperly limit the full scope of transmission jurisdiction that the FPA has 
conferred on the Commission.30 Moreover, as a practical matter, all large loads require step-down 
facilities to interconnect with the grid, so to hold that such step-down facilities are beyond the 
Commission’s jurisdiction would effectively allow Transmission Owners to retain their control 
over the timing, procedures and services applicable to large load interconnections, thereby 
thwarting the entire purpose of the ANOPR. That cannot be squared with the FPA’s conferral of 
jurisdiction to the Commission over the transmission of electricity, including to end-users, as the 
Supreme Court has held. The Commission should issue clear guidance on this point, lest the 
Transmission Owners use litigation over the seven-factor test to thwart the intent of the ANOPR.   
At the same time, the ANOPR correctly limited the Commission’s jurisdiction to 
“interconnections directly to transmission facilities,” not retail sales.31 Under the FPA, only the 
states, not the Commission, may exercise jurisdiction over the sale of energy to end-users.32 The 
Commission therefore has no jurisdiction over the direct sale of energy from a generator to a data 
center where the power never flows over the interstate transmission grid. This includes, for 
example, a behind-the-meter co-location configuration with system protection features that prevent 
any power from flowing over the grid to the load, like this: 
 
29 16 U.S.C. § 824(b)(1). 
30 New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. at 16. 
31 ANOPR at ¶ 18. 
32 See 16 U.S.C § 824(b)(1). 

--- PAGE 12 ---
12 
 
As the Commission correctly observed—in line with the ANOPR—“states retain exclusive 
jurisdiction over the terms of retail sales, generally including the rate designs that determine how 
the costs of the wholesale sale and transmission of electricity assigned to a wholesale customer are 
allocated among that wholesale customer’s retail customers.”33 This is equally true for the sale 
between the generator and a load connected behind the generator meter in a configuration that 
makes it impossible for the load to draw power from the grid. 
The Commission reiterated this principle just this past month in Tri-State Generation and 
Transmission Association, Inc.34 There, the Commission rejected Tri-State’s proposed tariff for 
large loads because it unlawfully “intru[ded] on retail rate regulation” and thus was outside “the 
Commission’s authority.”35 As the Commission stated, “the plain language of the FPA bars the 
Commission from regulating retail sales and the Supreme Court has been clear: specification of 
 
33 Pac. Gas & Elec. Co., 115 FERC ¶ 61,193 at P 68. 
34 193 FERC ¶ 61,070 (2025) (“Tri-State”). 
35 Id. P 45. 

--- PAGE 13 ---
13 
terms of sale at retail ‘is a job for the States alone.’”36 That encompasses direct sales from 
generators to large loads.37 
Principle 2—Setting an Appropriate Size Threshold  
The ANOPR proposes a 20 MW size threshold, or “for hybrid facilities, where the load is 
greater than 20 MW.38 Constellation supports the ANOPR’s size threshold concept, but it is 
unnecessary for hybrid facilities where the load shares an interconnection to the transmission grid 
with generation as all hybrid facilities’ load is FERC-jurisdictional. For large loads not sharing an 
interconnection with generation, it may be that the size threshold should be based on the voltage 
of the transmission facilities where it connects. But a higher megawatt (or voltage) threshold would 
have the significant benefit of reducing the potential number of large load projects clogging the 
interconnection queue. 
Principle 3—Combining Studies for Load and Hybrid Facilities with Generation 
The ANOPR states that “to the extent practicable, load and hybrid facilities should be 
studied together with generating facilities. Such an approach will allow for efficient siting of loads 
and generating facilities and thereby minimize the need for costly network upgrades.”39 It is our 
understanding that a single, combined study is not practicable, as the generation and large loads 
typically still must be studied separately in case the load or generator trips, and either the generator 
 
36 Id. P 50 (citing FERC v. Elec. Power Supply Ass’n, 577 U.S. 260, 280 (2016); New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. at 17). 
37 In Tri-State, the Commission had no occasion to “elaborate … on other matters raised by parties regarding the extent 
of the Commission’s jurisdiction, such as jurisdiction over the process of interconnecting loads to the Commission-
jurisdictional transmission system.” Id. As explained above, the Commission’s jurisdiction does in fact extend to 
interconnections between large loads and interstate transmission facilities.  
38 ANOPR at ¶ 19. 
39 Id. at ¶ 20. 

--- PAGE 14 ---
14 
injects its entire output onto the grid, or the load withdraws its full demand from the grid.40 The 
Commission should follow the guidance of the RTOs regarding the technicalities of the studies, 
including whether they can be combined for hybrid facilities with a shared point of interconnection 
to the grid.  
The “benefits” of combined studies are not as certain as they may appear: First, the goals 
of efficient siting of load and minimizing upgrades should be priorities, but these are benefits of 
co-location, not combining studies. Indeed, other measures would have a greater impact on 
efficient siting and minimizing upgrades than combining studies, including: 
 confirming hybrid facilities (generation and load sharing an interconnection to the 
grid) should pay transmission rates on a net load basis (or standby charges, both as 
discussed below at Principle 11),  
 approving large load interconnection standards (see Principle 4), and  
 adopting and enforcing strict study timelines, non-discrimination, and cooperation 
(see Section II.B. below).  
Second, combined studies are frequently paired with “bring your own generation” (BYOG) 
proposals that are restricted to new generation and unduly discriminate against existing generation 
resources. The ANOPR itself suggests this, stating that “siting a large load near or at the same 
point of interconnection as a new generating facility could reduce the network upgrades needed to 
interconnect only the load or only the generating facility.”41 But all co-location configurations 
 
40 A combined study is appropriate for a behind-the-meter configuration where the large load connects behind the 
generator’s meter (in contrast to hybrid facilities where the load and the generator share a point of interconnection 
to the grid “in-front-of-the meter”). In a behind-the-meter configuration, the generator modifies its Commission-
jurisdictional interconnection agreement and the studies are based on the net rights to the transmission system. 
41 ANOPR at ¶ 20 (emphasis added); see also id. at ¶ 22 (studying hybrid facilities’ injection and/or withdrawal rights 
“provides incentives for co-location with new generation facilities and ensures efficient buildout of the transmission 
system”) (emphasis added); id. at ¶ 27 (Principle 10 calling for a unique study methodology to apply to “an existing 
generation facility in a hybrid facility arrangement) (emphasis added); but see id. at P 12 (defining “hybrid facilities” 
as large loads “seeking to share a point of interconnection with new or existing generation facilities”) (emphasis 
added). There should be no discrimination between new and existing generation in the co-location rules that the 
Commission adopts. 

--- PAGE 15 ---
15 
provide these benefits, not just those linked to new generation. The Commission should reject 
proposals that would allow a separate load study or load interconnection process solely for load 
coupled with new resources or any option that would turn combined studies into a vehicle for 
compelled BYOG arrangements limited to new resources only.  
This issue was raised in the PJM Show Cause proceedings, which included a potential 
BYOG proposal (PJM Option 6) focused on PJM extending favorable generation interconnection 
queue treatment to new generators associated with new loads.42 Constellation provided testimony 
that “the suggestion that new generation that directly contracts with a customer … should be 
allowed to skip the generation interconnection queue undermines PJM market signals.… These 
generation developers will be, in effect, allowed to circumvent the queue process … in a manner 
that is unfair and not competitive.”43 “This approach is functionally equivalent to an out-of-market 
payment or subsidy (for the same resource adequacy services) which effectively lowers the cost of 
the with-contract class and thus distorts and depresses market economics for all other resources 
(including all without-contract new resources and all existing resources).”44 The favorable 
interconnection queue treatment presented by PJM Option 6 does not make up for the 
discriminatory nature of this option because “[t]he ultimate endpoint of such a policy is to drive 
all resource additions to seek contracts with large load and depress economics for other resources, 
leading to reduced new entry outside of the large load contract path and potentially retirements of 
existing resources.”45 
 
42 Constellation’s April 23, 2025 Show Cause Answer at 52–55 (Option 6—“Bring Your Own Generation”). 
43 Testimony of Zachary Ming at 58-59 (Exh. 2 to Constellation’s April 23, 2025 Show Cause Answer) (“Ming 
Testimony”). 
44 Affidavit of Aaron T. Patterson at ¶ 40 (Exh. 3 to Constellation’s April 23, 2025 Show Cause Answer) (“Patterson 
Affidavit”). 
45 Constellation’s April 23, 2025 Show Cause Answer at 52-53 (quoting Patterson Affidavit at ¶ 40). 

--- PAGE 16 ---
16 
However, as bad as PJM’s Option 6 is, far worse would be a rule that provides expedited 
load interconnection treatment to loads that bring their own new generation, effectively creating a 
powerful disincentive for new load to contract with existing resources. This would be unlawful 
discrimination and bad policy,46 yet that is what has been discussed in the PJM Stakeholder 
Process. It takes more than just new resources to supply the power system—we also must retain 
existing resources and not create policies that cause their premature retirement, such as distorting 
market signals by paying above-market premiums or offering special favors solely to new 
resources. In a fight for AI dominance with China, the United States cannot afford to tie one hand 
behind its back.47 
The simple solution is to allow existing resources to compete on an equal footing with new 
resources and to ensure that the final rule treats existing and new resources without discrimination. 
The Commission should affirm that all market design features should be designed to ensure 
sufficient generation resources, which means to provide efficient signals both to build new 
capacity and to retain existing resources. BYOG fails this basic test, and the Commission should 
reject a “combined studies” approach as part of a BYOG-like mechanism. In PJM, the Commission 
 
46 See Constellation’s April 23, 2025 Show Cause Answer at 53-55 (discussing unlawful “vintaging” in favor of new 
resources). 
47 In the PJM Show Cause proceedings, seven Retired Generals of the United States Armed Services, stated, “nuclear 
plants serving co-located data centers provide a reliable source of power and are uniquely hardened against cyber 
and physical attacks…. Co-location arrangements provide crucial advantages in terms of the speed with which they 
can meet defense-critical data center needs, and the resilience of the power that nuclear plants provide. We 
respectfully request that you take these benefits into account as FERC’s proceedings go forward and ensure that all 
options to quickly serve data centers are made available.” National Security Experts Letter to FERC, Docket No. 
EL25-49-000, at 2 (Apr. 22, 2025) (Accession No. 20250422-5129). See also Declaration of Dr. Paul Stockton at 3, 
9 (Exh. 1 to Constellation’s April 23, 2025 Show Cause Answer) (“Stockton Declaration”) (“[m]eeting the power 
requirements for these data centers is crucial so that [the Department of War] can … counter China’s drive for AI 
supremacy and its use of AI to help achieve military superiority over the United States.… Speed is of the essence 
for national security.”). 

--- PAGE 17 ---
17 
should reject PJM Option 6 or any option that provides expedited load interconnection in exchange 
for BYOG as a potential pathway. 
Principle 4—Adopting Standardized Interconnection Rules and Expediting Service 
to Large Loads 
The ANOPR’s fourth principle proposes standardized study deposits, readiness 
requirements, and withdrawal penalties to large loads and hybrid facilities.48 While the details 
matter, this general approach mirrors the proven framework established in Order No. 2003, which 
standardized 
generator 
interconnection 
procedures 
by 
requiring 
deposits, 
readiness 
demonstrations, and withdrawal penalties.49 Extending the same principles to large loads and 
hybrid facilities should improve queue efficiency, enhance forecasting accuracy, and support more 
effective transmission planning. 
The lack of consistent standards for large loads and hybrid facilities creates a vacuum that 
leaves Transmission Owners with significant discretion to delay or deny large-load and co-location 
proposals and to impose terms that are neither just nor reasonable.50 The same types of 
Transmission Owner discrimination and delays are what caused the Commission to adopt Order 
No. 2003 for generator interconnections.51 These are the very concerns surfacing today in large-
 
48 ANOPR at ¶ 21. 
49 Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103.  
50 See, e.g., Constellation’s April 23, 2025 Show Cause Answer at 14–15 (discussing Transmission Owner refusals to 
process Necessary Studies and requirements for the projects to be in front of the meter and to take service on a gross 
load basis). 
51 See, e.g., Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103 at P 120 (a Transmission Provider “may not require an 
Interconnection Customer, as a condition of interconnection, to accept responsibility for Network Upgrades on other 
systems,” because doing so “would create an unreasonable obstacle to the construction of new generation”); id. 
P 115 (requiring transparency on slippage by directing Transmission Providers to “post deviations from the study 
time lines … along with an explanation for the delay”); id. P 353 (adopting an Option to Build to mitigate 
utility-caused schedule risk “the Interconnection Customer may assume responsibility for the construction of the 
Transmission Provider’s Interconnection Facilities and Stand Alone Network Upgrades if the Transmission Provider 
notifies [it] that it cannot meet the dates established”) (we discuss the Option to Build in Principle 9).  

--- PAGE 18 ---
18 
load interconnections: absent clear, filed standards, Transmission Owners are again blurring 
interconnection with other services, imposing delay leverage, and conditioning progress on 
unrelated obligations—conduct Order No. 2003’s reforms were designed to prevent. The 
Commission should direct Transmission Owners to process transmission interconnection requests 
in a non-discriminatory fashion, regardless of the configuration (i.e., a hybrid front-of-the meter 
connection or a direct connection to the grid, taking service from the Transmission Owner). 
Another current example of Transmission Owners leveraging their control over 
interconnection is in the negotiation of Transmission Security Agreements (“TSAs”). While 
Constellation is supportive of the concept of TSAs to deter speculative load interconnection 
requests, it is important that those TSAs contain some component reflective of upgrade costs (to 
create an incentive to locate most efficiently), and that they do not discourage legitimate projects 
by locking in one-size fits all gross billing arrangements.  
The ANOPR’s Principle 4 further highlights the benefits of “provid[ing] transmission 
providers with more useful information to more accurately forecast demand on their systems.”52 
PJM, for example, currently relies on Transmission Owners’ annual assessments, which are 
informal and based on unverified estimates of anticipated additions. In the PJM Show Cause 
proceedings, Constellation advocated mandatory, detailed rules for Transmission Owner reporting 
of anticipated load additions, with reporting at least two to four times per year to keep planning 
assumptions.53 Building on that foundation, Constellation, other generators, and several large 
technology companies with large load needs have sponsored a “Joint Stakeholder Package,” 
 
52 ANOPR at ¶ 21. 
53 Constellation’s April 23, 2025 Show Cause Answer at 96-97; see also Patterson Affidavit at ¶ 29 

--- PAGE 19 ---
19 
discussed in Principle 14 below on reliability standards, which includes a large load forecasting 
proposal to ensure only substantiated load is reflected in planning baselines.54 
Given the acute and demonstrable problems with large load forecasting within PJM, the 
Commission should adopt clear, uniform standards, which should also consider large load 
forecasting standards and other measures that will expedite large load studies and interconnections. 
In the PJM Show Cause proceedings, the Commission could order PJM and Transmission Owners 
to adopt large load forecasting improvements along the lines of the Joint Stakeholder Package’s 
Large Load Forecasting Improvements proposal. 
Principle 5—Basing Interconnection Studies for Hybrid Facilities on Withdrawal 
and/or Injection Rights 
Constellation agrees in principle with concept of studying hybrid facilities and any large 
load configuration “based on the amount of injection and/or withdrawal rights requested,”55 or 
reflecting the net usage of the transmission system, but will defer to the RTOs as to what studies 
are necessary to maintain reliability. Our understanding is that exactly how the studies should work 
depends on the type of interconnection configuration. 
For hybrid facilities, which the ANOPR defines as having a shared point of interconnection 
“directly to transmission facilities”—that is, an in-front-of-the-meter connection to Commission-
jurisdictional interstate transmission facilities—it is our understanding that, as a practical matter, 
the large load’s withdrawals and the generator’s injections typically still must be studied separately 
in case the load or generator trips (see discussion above in Principle 3). A load connected in front 
 
54 See Joint Stakeholder Package (Amazon, Calpine, Constellation, Google, Microsoft, Talen), PJM CIFP – Large 
Load Additions, Stage 4 (Nov. 19, 2025), Exh. 1 hereto (describing “Large Load Forecasting Improvements” 
proposal); see also infra at Principle 14 (discussing same).  
55 ANOPR at ¶ 22. 

--- PAGE 20 ---
20 
of the meter seeks withdrawal rights equal to its gross load, and the generator requires injection 
rights equal to its gross capacity. That said, transmission rates for hybrid facilities should be based 
on the actual usage of the transmission system, rather than the load’s withdrawal rights. And a 
hybrid facility’s actual usage of the transmission system is best measured by net withdrawals.56  
By contrast, for a behind-the-meter co-location configuration in which the generator is 
connected to the grid but the load is not, both the generation and the load can and should be studied 
together based on their net rights (injections and withdrawals) to use the transmission system.57  
A curtailable load, meanwhile, could have withdrawal rights of zero if it is fully curtailable, 
even if it is a hybrid facility (i.e., sharing a point of interconnection with the generator). In that 
scenario, there would be no firm load to be served and, therefore, no network upgrades required 
until the transmission service converts to a firm service. (We discuss curtailable loads and 
dispatchable generators associated with hybrid facilities below in Principle 7.) 
Contrary to the views of some Transmission Owners, the interconnection studies—and the 
services offered—should depend on the specific configuration at issue, rather than an assumption 
that the load must always have full withdrawal rights. This is consistent with how the Commission 
treats the interconnection of storage facilities, which requires Transmission Owners to conduct 
studies based on the customer’s proposed operating assumptions whether part of a stand-alone, co-
 
56 “[T]he starting point for a co-located load configuration should be a net billing construct that measures the actual 
energy flowing between the entire co-location configuration and the transmission system.” Constellation’s April 23, 
2025 Show Cause Answer at 39. 
57 In the PJM Show Cause proceedings, Constellation explained that “[f]or generators seeking to serve co-located load 
under PJM Options 4 and 5 [behind-the-meter, generator-contingent options], the generators’ [Interconnection 
Service Agreement] would be modified … and PJM would perform a [N]ecessary [S]tudy … with the costs of any… 
upgrades … typically being borne by the co-locating parties.” See Constellation’s April 23, 2025 Show Cause 
Answer at 94.  

--- PAGE 21 ---
21 
located or hybrid configuration.58 Just as the Commission has required for storage resources, the 
final large load interconnection rule should reflect the withdrawal rights and different types of 
service that large loads and hybrid facilities wish to take, rather than requiring every resource to 
take full network service whether they need it or not. In the PJM Show Cause proceedings, this 
would be reflected in a Commission order upholding behind-the-meter, generator-contingent 
services (PJM Options 4 and 5) and curtailable service (PJM Option 7), in addition to Firm 
Network Integrated Transmission Service (“NITS”) service (PJM Option 2). 
Principle 6—Installing Appropriate System Protection Facilities  
Constellation agrees that a behind-the-meter facility that does not intend to take power 
from the grid “sh[ould] be required to install the system protection facilities necessary to prevent 
unauthorized injections or withdrawals that exceed the respective rights.”59 There are other 
circumstances in which system protection schemes  are unnecessary, such as when the load that is 
part of a hybrid configuration intends to take network integration transmission service. Operational 
limitations associated with the particular configuration would be set forth in the agreement(s) 
governing the interconnection, again just like the Commission has required for storage resources. 
In PJM, some Transmission Owners have contended that the use of protection schemes for 
co-located load configurations is inadequately specified and unreliable, citing “the recent history 
of faults at the Susquehanna generator that has led to unintended power withdrawals from the PJM 
 
58 Improvements to Generator Interconnection Procedures & Agreements, Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054, at 
P 1509 (2023), order on reh’g & clarification, Order No. 2023-A, 185 FERC ¶ 61,117 (2023), order on reh’g & 
clarification, Order No. 2023-B, 186 FERC ¶ 61,204 (2024); see also id. P 1525 (“[W]e …  clarify that the 
transmission provider must not assign network upgrade costs to the interconnection customer based on those worst-
case operating assumptions (e.g., charging at maximum capacity during peak load conditions) where there is 
agreement from the interconnection customer to, if required, implement operating restrictions including installing 
or demonstrating that the generating facility already has control technologies … to limit its operations during peak 
load conditions.”). 
59 ANOPR at ¶ 23. 

--- PAGE 22 ---
22 
transmission system.”60 This assertion overlooks the corrective and operational safeguards already 
adopted by PJM and the generating facility. A single historical fault that produced an unintended 
withdrawal does not demonstrate that protective relays cannot prevent such events. The record in 
the PJM Show Cause proceedings demonstrates that “[p]rotection schemes are regularly employed 
on the PJM transmission system, and the successful operation of such protective systems is a 
common observance within PJM.”61 These systems operate effectively to isolate behind-the-meter 
co-located loads in the event of a sudden generator outage, ensuring that “no energy will flow to 
the co-located load over the transmission grid following a contingency, and no NITS service will 
be provided by the grid to the co-located load.”62 To address the risk of any misplacement or faulty 
relay systems, such as the Susquehanna situation, the protective scheme should be tested upon 
installation, similar to other electrical equipment. 
There is also evidence in the record in the PJM Show Cause proceedings on “the minimum 
technical requirements for such system protection facilities.”63 “These protective relay schemes 
can be designed so that there are completely redundant primary and backup protective schemes, 
with two circuit breakers placed in series. Each circuit breaker has two trip coils, and all elements 
are redundant, resulting in a single-failure-proof design.”64  
 
60 Protest of Exelon Corporation and American Electric Power Service Corporation re the Non-conforming 
Interconnection Service, Docket No. ER24-2172, at 12 (June 24, 2024).  
61 Herling Affidavit at ¶ 23 (Exh. 4 to Constellation’s April 23, 2025 Show Cause Answer) (“Herling Affidavit”). 
62 Id. ¶ 29; see also supra note 57 (citing Order No. 2023 where the Commission approved control schemes to prevent 
batteries from drawing power times of grid stress). 
63 ANOPR at ¶ 23. 
64 Herling Affidavit ¶¶ 21–22. 

--- PAGE 23 ---
23 
Principle 7—Expediting Interconnection Studies for Curtailable Loads 
The ANOPR proposes that interconnection studies for “large loads that agree to be 
curtailable and hybrid facilities that agree to be curtailable and dispatchable should be 
expedited.”65 Constellation agrees with this principle, but there are additional ways to advance 
curtailable and dispatchable large loads and hybrid facilities along with expediting their 
interconnection studies that the Commission should seek to encourage. Curtailability and 
dispatchability of large loads help maximize efficient use of the transmission system, avoid or 
defer system transmission (and potentially distribution) upgrades, and reduce capacity 
procurements.66  
The recent study by the Nicholas Institute at Duke University explained the benefits of 
flexible loads and permitting them to take non-firm transmission service. Firm service assumes 
full transmission service all the time, which curtailable loads do not need and should not be 
required to buy—yet it currently is the only network transmission service available. The Duke 
Study explains that, if new load is required to take firm service and one assumes that such load 
will “operate at 100% of its maximum electricity draw at all times, including during system-wide 
peaks”—which is the assumption underlying traditional NITS—then it is “far more likely” that 
“significant upgrades, such as new transformers, transmission line reconductoring, circuit 
breakers, or other substation equipment” will be required.67 By contrast, if a different service were 
 
65 ANOPR at ¶ 24. 
66 Sam Walsh, et al., How DOE’s Proposed Large Load Interconnection Process Could Unlock the Benefits of Load 
Flexibility: 
Considerations 
for 
Rulemaking 
at 
9 
(Nov. 
2025), 
https://nicholasinstitute.duke.edu/sites/default/files/publications/how-does-proposed-large-load-interconnection-
process-could-unlock-benefits-load-flexibility.pdf (“Duke Policy Statement”). 
67 Tyler H. Norris, et al., Rethinking Load Growth: Assessing the Potential for Integration of Large Flexible Loads in 
US Power Systems at 5 (Feb. 2025), https://nicholasinstitute.duke.edu/publications/rethinking-load-growth (“Duke 
Study”). 

--- PAGE 24 ---
24 
offered to such new load by which the load could “temporarily reduce (i.e., curtail) its electricity 
consumption from the grid during [] peak stress periods … it may be able to connect while 
deferring—or even avoiding—the need for certain upgrades.”68 The Duke Study concludes that a 
new load curtailment rate of just 0.5% annually would result in nearly 18 gigawatts (“GW”) of 
potential new load integration in PJM without capacity expansion.69 This amount increases to 
23.6 GW with a 1.0% curtailment rate. Finally, the Duke Study also explains that a failure to use 
existing headroom on the transmission system, reflecting the gap between the average and peak 
demand in the balancing area, increases costs on ratepayers. Specifically, a low system utilization 
rate (i.e., more headroom) means that ratepayers are paying to build and maintain generation assets, 
transmission infrastructure, and distribution networks that may remain idle for much of the year.70 
While expediting the interconnection studies of flexible load is a good step, the 
Commission should endorse other paths that would allow curtailable large loads and dispatchable 
hybrid resources to connect without first requiring the completion of system upgrades needed to 
support firm transmission service at peak, and without requiring any additional capacity.71 For 
example, if the customer chooses, interruptible service can serve as a bridge to full service while 
transmission upgrades are completed.72 Importantly, the type of interruptible transmission service 
discussed here is different from having the interruptible load count as demand response in a 
 
68 Id. (citing ERCOT, Large Loads—Impact on Grid Reliability and Overview of Revision Request Package, Presented 
at 
the 
NPRR1191 
and 
Related 
Revision 
Requests 
Workshop 
(Aug. 
16, 
2023), 
https://www.ercot.com/files/docs/2023/11/08/PUBLIC-Overview-of-Large-Load-Revision-Requests-for-8-16-23- 
Workshop.pptx). 
69 Id. at 2. 
70 Id. at 6. 
71 See, e.g., Duke Policy Statement at 12-15 (discussing non-firm withdrawal rights). 
72 See ANOPR at ¶ 22, n.39 (“Any facility should be able to seek additional rights through a separate interconnection 
request.”). 

--- PAGE 25 ---
25 
capacity auction. It is also different from PJM’s ill-fated non-capacity backed load (“NCBL”) 
proposal, as rather than PJM choosing to curtail select classes of customers in a discriminatory 
manner inconsistent with sections 205 and 202(g) of the FPA,73 in this instance the load is electing 
to receive a lower quality transmission service.74   
In the PJM Show Cause proceedings, PJM identified a provisional, interruptible 
transmission service, PJM’s Option 7, that can be curtailed by PJM during pre-defined conditions 
and that would result in a more efficient use of the system (i.e., increased system utilization rate) 
and significant near-term customer savings as compared to the NITS-only framework.75 Under this 
option, the interconnection study should be expedited because an “interruptible co-located load 
does not require the transmission system to be planned, built, or adapted in any way to 
accommodate the load because PJM can interrupt the load when needed to avoid system impacts. 
Therefore, no standby or system impact charges are appropriate.”76 “PJM’s right to curtail the load 
during defined criteria also means that the load, while it is receiving this service, need not be 
counted toward the region’s reliability requirement.”77 Large loads also should be able to transition 
from curtailable service to firm service with appropriate studies and network upgrades, with lesser 
levels of service allowing more immediate interconnection. Other related market design features 
 
73 16 U.S.C. §§ 824a(g), 824d. 
74 See PJM, Large Load Additions: PJM Conceptual Proposal and Request for Member Feedback (Aug. 18, 2025), at 
https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/committees-groups/cifp-lla/2025/20250818/20250818-item-03---pjm-
conceptual-proposal-and-request-for-member-feedback---presentation.pdf (proposing non-capacity backed load 
service); see also Devin Leith-Yessian, PJM Drops Non-capacity Backed Load, Shifts Focus to Resource Queue, 
PRD, RTO Insider (Oct. 9, 2025), PJM Drops Non-capacity Backed Load, Shifts Focus to Resource Queue, PRD. 
75 Constellation’s April 23, 2025 Show Cause Answer at 55-57. Constellation proposed certain modifications, 
including that interruptible service would be available until the transmission upgrades needed for NITS service are 
completed. 
76 Ming Testimony at 34. 
77 Constellation’s April 23, 2025 Show Cause Answer at 9; see also id. at 55-56 

--- PAGE 26 ---
26 
can further maximize current use of the system. In the PJM stakeholder process, Constellation has 
joined a group that proposed the Joint Stakeholder Package of reforms for this purpose, including 
improving system reliability.78 The Commission’s rule should also consider such measures. 
Finally, the ANOPR inquires whether serial (first-come, first-served) studies are 
appropriate for curtailable loads, and whether a 60-day deadline is reasonable. In Constellation’s 
view, a 60-day period for studying facilities that are likely, by design, to have little impact on the 
PJM system is aligned with the overall timeline of 6 months for the study of a load interconnection 
project.   
The Commission’s proposed rule should adopt these measures to maximize efficient use 
of the transmission system. In the PJM Show Cause proceedings, the Commission should approve 
PJM Option 7 as modified by Constellation.  
Principle 8—Allocating Network Upgrade Costs Based on Appropriate Studies 
The ANOPR’s eighth principle states that “load and hybrid facilities should be responsible 
for 100% of the network upgrades that they are assigned through the interconnection studies” and 
“seek[s] comment on whether such costs should be offset through a crediting mechanism.”79 
Constellation takes no position on this issue at this time. 
Principle 9—Granting the Customer the Option to Build 
The ANOPR’s ninth principle affords large load interconnection customers an option to 
build equivalent to what is currently provided to generator interconnection customers.80 
 
78 See Exh. 1; see also infra at Principle 14 (discussing same). 
79 ANOPR at ¶ 25. 
80 ANOPR at ¶ 26; see Reform of Generator Interconnection Procedures and Agreements, Order No. 845, 163 FERC 
¶ 61,043, at PP 85-87 (2018) (“Order No. 845”), order on reh’g, Order No. 845-A, 166 FERC ¶ 61,137 (2019), 
order on reh’g & clarification, Order No. 845-B, 168 FERC ¶ 61,092 (2019). 

--- PAGE 27 ---
27 
Constellation agrees that the option to build should be provided to large load customers subject to 
host utility standards as it is currently provided to generator interconnection customers. This is 
consistent with the Commission’s intentions as stated in its generator interconnection rule, Order 
No. 845, “of providing interconnection customers more control and certainty during the design 
and construction phases of the interconnection process.”81 Originally, the option to build was 
limited “to circumstances where the transmission provider cannot meet the interconnection 
customer’s requested dates” but the Commission found this too limiting since the customer may 
be able to build the facilities not only more quickly but also at lower cost.82 The Commission found 
“that in circumstances where an interconnection customer cannot exercise the option to build, it 
may pay more and/or wait longer for the construction of the transmission provider’s 
interconnection facilities,” citing record evidence that “savings can occur and have already 
occurred.”83 The option to build has been a success and it should be included in the final large load 
interconnection rule.  
Principle 10—Assigning Appropriate Upgrade Costs to Co-Locating Existing 
Generation 
The ANOPR states that “an existing generating facility that seeks to enter a partial 
suspension to serve a new load at the same location must go through a system support resource 
(SSR)/reliability must run (RMR) type study,” wait to proceed until “after any network upgrades 
needed to ensure reliability are placed into service,” and pay for any upgrades.84 By “partial 
 
81 Order No. 845, 163 FERC ¶ 61,043 at P 85. 
82 Id. (“The limitation restricts an interconnection customer’s ability to efficiently build the transmission provider’s 
interconnection facilities and stand alone network upgrades in a cost-effective manner, which could result in higher 
costs for interconnection customers.”) (emphasis added). 
83 Id. P 86 (citing a NextEra affiliate’s ability to complete a project “one year sooner and for $6 million less than 
estimated by the transmission provider”). 
84 ANOPR at ¶ 27. 

--- PAGE 28 ---
28 
suspension,” Constellation assumes that the ANOPR is referring to situations in which the RTO 
requires the generator to delist capacity when a generator serves load directly behind-the-meter 
and the load takes no transmission service. In PJM, there is an existing “reliability type study” 
called the Necessary Study process that applies to a circumstance where the generator is directly 
serving the load. The Necessary Study determines the reliability impact of an existing generator 
modifying its interconnection, including by co-locating with a large load, with the generator 
ultimately being responsible to pay for any reliability upgrades necessary to maintain the 
generator’s electrical support of the grid.85 Constellation supports this existing Necessary Study 
process and agrees with the principle identified in the ANOPR that the generator is responsible for 
the upgrades the Necessary Study determines are necessary to maintain operational security and 
reliability. 
To the extent the ANOPR suggests that an existing generator must undergo an SSR/RMR 
type study if it is required to delist before serving non-network load co-located behind the meter, 
that should be rejected. It would depart from RTO practice, misapply the existing “retirement” 
paradigm, and would be unduly discriminatory against existing resources seeking to serve co-
located non-network load. The Commission has no authority to force a capacity resource that is 
required to delist in order to directly serve a non-network customer to instead serve network load.  
First, the record in the PJM Show Cause proceedings demonstrates that PJM’s existing 
Necessary Study process is sufficient to ensure reliability for a co-location configuration at an 
existing generation facility. Constellation’s witness, Michael Kormos, PJM’s former Chief 
Operations Officer and former Senior Vice President of Transmission and Compliance at Exelon 
 
85 Constellation’s April 23, 2025 Show Cause Answer at 95; see also PJM’s March 24, 2025 Answer at 34. 

--- PAGE 29 ---
29 
with nearly 30 years’ experience operating and planning transmission systems and running 
electricity markets, “disagree[d] with any suggestion that [PJM’s] [N]ecessary [S]tudy process is 
anything but a robust, highly effective study of the impact of the modification requested,” 
testifying that the studies are “led by an independent RTO; uniform and transparent … and focused 
on the overall grid impacts of the new load explicitly (and not focused predominantly on local 
impacts…).”86 There is no evidence that this existing framework has failed to maintain reliability 
in PJM.87 
Second, treating an existing unit that continues to run and provide electricity to a co-located 
load as if it were retiring is unprecedented and factually incorrect. Instead of retiring, these units 
continue to serve load. There is no contractual or tariff obligation for existing generators to only 
sell energy to the grid. They can sell to any willing customer.88  
Nor should the existing generator in a behind-the-meter co-location configuration with load 
be treated as if it is retiring for study purposes. If anything, they should be treated like capacity 
resources in PJM that convert to energy only.89 The Independent Market Monitor performs a 
market power analysis but there is no reliability analysis. The change in status is reflected in PJM’s 
models and studies. For an existing generator seeking to serve non-network load, PJM’s Necessary 
 
86 Constellation’s Show Cause Answer Apr. 23, 2025 at 88 (quoting Kormos Affidavit at ¶ 6). 
87 Any argument that the Susquehanna behind-the-meter configuration had a negative effect on reliability is dispatched 
by the operational record once the protective relay scheme was properly installed and tested.   
88 Such a rule would also constitute an unconstitutional taking under the Fifth Amendment because, by imposing cost-
prohibitive upgrades, it would effectively prevent an existing generator from selling to a willing customer and 
compel the generator to sell to the grid. See Cedar Point Nursery v. Hassid, 594 U.S. 139, 149 (2021) (“Whenever 
a regulation results in a physical appropriation of property, a per se taking has occurred.”); Horne v. Dep’t of 
Agriculture, 576 U.S. 351, 364-65 (2015) (holding that “a governmental mandate to relinquish specific, identifiable 
property as a ‘condition’ on permission to engage in commerce effects a per se taking”); cf. Duquesne Light Co. v. 
Barasch, 488 U.S. 299, 308 (1989) (“If the rate does not afford sufficient compensation, the State has taken the use 
of utility property without paying just compensation and so violated the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments.”). 
89 See PJM OATT, Att. DD § 6.6. 

--- PAGE 30 ---
30 
Studies process is the correct framework to study the reliability impact of the existing generator’s 
modified interconnection to the grid (to accommodate the co-located load), not to treat the 
generator as if it is gone. 
Replacing PJM’s Necessary Study process with RMR/SSR retirement studies that would 
impose broad new network costs on a class of existing resources for the simple act of serving a 
customer through a co-located configuration chosen by the customer, which may be the only option 
to serve the load in a timely fashion. It would effectively preclude some customer configurations 
that may be more efficient and expedient and dictate a generator’s perpetual service to the 
monopoly-controlled grid. By unjustly burdening co-location configurations, it would act in direct 
conflict with the principles of the ANOPR, undermine incentives to locate load as close as possible 
to generation, and create a powerful disincentive for any load to come online on a merchant-only 
basis.  
Third, it is unduly discriminatory in violation of section 206 of the FPA to burden existing 
generation seeking to serve non-network load with extra costs and requirements through policies 
like heightened reliability study requirements when the Necessary Study process is sufficient to 
ensure reliability.90 It is highly discriminatory to charge these costs to resources entering into such 
arrangements compared to resources that are actually retiring altogether which are not burdened 
with these costs. We are in an era—as identified in the ANOPR—“which will require 
unprecedented and extraordinary quantities of electricity and substantial investment in the 
Nation’s interstate transmission system.”91 America needs every megawatt to serve AI 
infrastructure, whether in-front-of- or behind-the-meter. Undue discrimination against existing 
 
90 16 U.S.C. § 824e(a). 
91 Secretary’s Letter at 2 (emphasis added). 

--- PAGE 31 ---
31 
resources in the interconnection of large loads will inevitably contribute to premature retirements, 
discourage generation from coming online on a merchant basis, and likely will hit dispatchable 
and baseload units the hardest.  
In the PJM Show Cause proceedings, the Commission should find that PJM’s existing 
“Necessary Studies” process satisfies the reliability concerns animating Principle 10, and that a 
generator should be on the hook for the costs identified by a traditional Necessary Study. If the 
Commission proceeds without making this clarification, then, at a minimum, the Commission 
should recognize that commitments to extend the operating license of an existing resource (without 
which license the facility would shut down), and significant investments that expand operational 
capacity, should result in the existing resource being treated comparably to a new resource. Life 
extensions and significant uprates prevent the existing capacity from retiring and provide the same 
resource adequacy and affordability benefits as construction of a new resource.92  
Since the ANOPR further prescribes that the reliability “type study” “must consider system 
conditions, including forecasted load growth, at least three years after the proposed suspension 
date” and “invite[s] comments on whether and how resource adequacy should be considered in the 
SSR/RMR type study,”93 Constellation further highlights its improved load forecasting, demand 
side products, and reliability backstop proposals in its Joint Stakeholder Package pending in PJM 
 
92 The Commission has found just and reasonable ISO New England rules that treat existing resources that have 
undertaken specific investments like new generating capacity resources. See ISO New England Inc., 119 FERC 
¶ 61,045, at P 219 (2007) (approving ISO-NE Tariff, § III.13.1.1.1.2 which “enable[s] a resource that has previously 
been counted as a capacity resource (including one that had been deactivated or retired) to participate in a Forward 
Capacity Auction as a new generating capacity resource”). 
93 ANOPR at ¶ 27. 

--- PAGE 32 ---
32 
and discussed below (see Principle 14).94 These measures address the ANOPR’s flagged issues 
without undue discrimination. 
Principle 11—Basing Transmission Rates on the Quantity of Capacity and Energy 
Being Transmitted Across the Transmission System to the Load  
The ANOPR states that “utilities serving large loads, including those at hybrid facilities, 
should be responsible for transmission service based on their withdrawal rights, as that value 
amount reflects the quantity of capacity and energy that is being transmitted across the 
transmission system to the load.”95 Constellation agrees that transmission rates for large loads and 
hybrid facilities should “reflect[] the quantity of capacity and energy that is being transmitted 
across the transmission system to the load,” but this is not necessarily equivalent to withdrawal 
rights. Again, it depends on the co-location configuration.  
Constellation provided detailed record evidence on appropriate rates under all potential co-
location configurations in the PJM Show Cause proceedings including PJM’s eight options, all 
depending on the level of service that the large loads and hybrid facilities desired. Zachary Ming 
of Energy+Environmental Economics, an expert in electricity market design who teaches a 
graduate course on this topic at Stanford University, summarized the three basic types of 
transmission service: firm standard network service, generator-contingent or behind-the-meter 
service, and interruptible (curtailable) service. Each of PJM’s proposed options for large load 
configurations in those proceedings was a variation of these three basic types of service:  
 firm service where the load always has rights to transmission service, the most 
relevant being PJM Option 2, NITS with in-front-of-the-meter co-location to the 
 
94 See Exh. 1 (Joint Stakeholder Package).  
95 ANOPR at ¶ 28. 

--- PAGE 33 ---
33 
interstate grid (equivalent to “hybrid facilities” in the ANOPR where large load and 
generation share a point of interconnection to the grid); 
 generator-contingent service where the load relies on co-located generation, 
comprised of PJM Option 4 (co-located behind-the-meter load) and Option 5 (same 
but with the option to purchase as-available energy); and 
 interruptible service where the load can be curtailed, PJM Option 7 (NITS with co-
location where load is interruptible, equivalent to ANOPR’s Principle 7 on 
curtailable load).96  
For PJM Option 2, or hybrid facilities as defined in the ANOPR (generation and load 
sharing a point of interconnection “directly to transmission facilities,” or in-front-of-the-meter to 
Commission-jurisdictional interstate transmission facilities),97 the “quantity of capacity and 
energy … being transmitted across the transmission system to the load” would be the net after 
subtracting injections by the generator. There already is extensive record evidence in the PJM 
Show Cause proceedings to demonstrate hybrid facilities’ “billing should be based on the load’s 
net use of the transmission grid, and this is true whether the load is ‘large’ or ‘small.’”98 A “gross 
load construct would apply transmission charges to the load-only portion of the co-located 
customer” but a “net load construct is consistent with measuring the actual energy flowing between 
the entire co-location configuration and the transmission system….”99  
PJM, moreover, already has numerous behind-the-meter-generation facilities that are billed 
on a net basis.100 The Commission found that BTMG netting was appropriate to “encourage 
 
96 Of PJM’s other options, Option 1 (firm NITS without co-location) and Option 8 (interruptible NITS with co-location 
where load participates as demand response) are existing Tariff services and require no Tariff changes; PJM Option 3 
(firm load customer with behind-the-meter generation) also is an existing Tariff service but PJM has asserted it does 
not apply to large loads. Only PJM Option 6 (firm NITS with co-location plus BYOG but only for new generation) 
was unjust and unreasonable as proposed because it unduly discriminated against existing resources. 
97 See ANOPR at ¶¶ 12, 18.  
98 Constellation’s April 23, 2025 Show Cause Answer at 45 (citing Ming Testimony at 55-56). 
99 Ming Testimony at 10. 
100 April 23, 2025 Answer at 42 (the existing BTMG provisions). 

--- PAGE 34 ---
34 
qualifying entities with behind the meter generation to reduce their use of the PJM transmission 
system.”101 In another case involving ISO New England Inc. (where netting also is standard for 
behind-the-meter configurations), the Commission found that netting “reasonably reflect[s] each 
Network Customer’s usage of the transmission system and assigns the cost of providing Regional 
Network Service accordingly.”102 Likewise, “[e]nergy charges should be assessed to co-located 
generators and loads [hybrid facilities] based on the net injection to or withdrawal from the 
transmission system.”103  
For firm service to hybrid facilities (PJM Option 2), Mr. Ming testified that net charges 
were appropriate (rather than gross), but also discussed a potential “standby charge” since “there 
is a high likelihood that the co-located generator will be available during the coincident peak hours, 
meaning that the co-located load is unlikely to be withdrawing energy during coincident peak 
hours” and “conventional NITS charges based on net system energy withdrawals may not fully 
capture the costs associated with designing the transmissions system to ensure the co-located load 
could be served.”104 This standby charge would “reflect the fact that the transmission system must 
be built to a certain extent to serve the load on a firm basis.”105 Mr. Ming provided one potential 
methodology to calculate the standby charge, but it would be based on a “customer-designated 
firm load subscription level of what the customer could draw from the transmission system.”106 
 
101 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 107 FERC ¶ 61,113, at PP 27-28 (2004) (citing Occidental Chemical Corp. v. PJM 
Interconnection, L.L.C., 102 FERC ¶ 61,275, at P 14 (2003)) (emphasis added). 
102 ISO New England Inc., 178 FERC ¶ 61,086, at P 49 (2022). 
103 Ming Testimony at 45. 
104 Id. at 28.  
105 Id. at 29 
106 Id. 

--- PAGE 35 ---
35 
Mr. Ming’s proposal was that the load in a hybrid facility configuration would pay the greater of 
the standby charge or its net transmission rate.107  
For generator-contingent behind-the-meter co-location configurations (PJM Options 4 and 
5), the load would pay a one-time system impact charge based on the results of the PJM Necessary 
Study with any as-available energy purchases billed at a discounted $/MWh charge.108 Charges for 
curtailable service would be based on any as-available energy purchases billed at a discounted 
$/MWh charge.109 Under both generator-contingent and interruptible configurations, the load 
likely would have zero withdrawal rights and would not rely on “capacity and energy … being 
transmitted across the transmission system to the load.”110  
By contrast, Transmission Owners in PJM have sought to impose one-size-fits-all firm 
transmission service (as discussed above under Principle 5) and full NITS charges based on gross 
load no matter how much capacity and energy is being transmitted to the load. The Commission 
already unanimously rejected efforts by Exelon to “clarify” the PJM Tariff to change the definition 
of “Network Load” to require all new load to be NITS customers, finding that Exelon lacked the 
authority to revise PJM’s Tariff.111 No party sought rehearing. Charging all large loads a “NITS 
rate [network transmission rate] based on gross load (as opposed to net) no matter their actual use 
of the transmission system discriminates because such a construct ‘is incapable of differentiating 
customers who impose different costs on the transmission system through co-location.’”112  
 
107 Id. at 31. 
108 Constellation’s April 23, 2025 Show Cause Answer at 65. 
109 Id. 
110 See ANOPR at ¶ 28. 
111 Atl. City Elec. Co., 190 FERC ¶ 61,109. 
112 Constellation’s April 23, 2025 Show Cause Answer at 32, citing Ming Testimony at 36.  

--- PAGE 36 ---
36 
Constellation urges the Commission to reject a one-size-fits all model for services and rates 
to large loads. Instead, the Commission should allow the transmission services customers want 
and rates that reflect the quantity of capacity and energy being transmitted to them over the grid.  
Principle 12—Charging for Ancillary Services Based on Peak Demand 
The ANOPR proposes that “utilities serving large loads … should be responsible for 
ancillary services based on peak demand, without consideration of co-located generation. Any co-
located generating facilities will similarly be fully compensated for the provision of ancillary 
services.”113 Constellation does not oppose this principle.114  
Principle 13—Establishing a Timely and Responsive Implementation Plan 
The ANOPR’s thirteenth principle provides that “there must be a plan to implement these 
proposed reforms, including the treatment of large load interconnections that are already being 
studied for interconnection.”115 The Commission should of course develop such a plan, but as 
detailed in Section II below, the Commission should begin by taking immediate action in the long-
pending PJM Show Cause (and related) proceedings by ruling on the merits and expediting 
implementation in PJM. Alternatively, if the Commission believes that the ANOPR adds new 
issues that were not already sufficiently addressed in record in the Show Cause proceedings or 
through additional comments submitted in response to this ANOPR, the Commission should issue 
a targeted order in the PJM Show Cause proceedings that eliminates ambiguity and delay in three 
key areas related to jurisdiction, rates, and timeliness so that more large load projects can move 
forward. With respect to the “the treatment of large load interconnections that are already being 
 
113 ANOPR at ¶ 29 (emphasis added). 
114 Separate ancillary service rate arrangements are justified for behind-the-meter large loads that are not connected to 
the grid. See Constellation’s April 23, 2025 Show Cause Answer. 
115 ANOPR at ¶ 30. 

--- PAGE 37 ---
37 
studied for interconnection” in PJM, the Commission should immediately put a halt to any PJM 
Transmission Owner’s refusal to proceed with the interconnection studies of co-location 
configurations (Constellation proposes specific measures in Section II).  
The Commission should reject any argument that it must wait to rule in PJM until a final 
rule on the ANOPR is issued. While the Commission’s ruling in PJM clearly will inform the 
Commission’s deliberations on other large load matters including the ANOPR, the Commission 
can and should undertake those deliberations in parallel to acting on the pending cases under 
section 206 of the FPA that have long been pending in PJM given the importance of this region 
and the national interests at stake. PJM cannot be allowed to have unclear rules and stalemate any 
longer. To the extent that the Commission’s later action in response to the ANOPR requires further 
work in PJM, the Commission can direct PJM to complete that work as part of the compliance 
process in that proceeding.   
As for a transition plan for “the treatment of large load interconnections that are already 
being studied for interconnection,”116 the Commission should grandfather interconnection studies 
that already are substantially completed by the time the Commission accepts final compliance 
filings in response to the Commission’s final rules.117 It would be inefficient and cause unnecessary 
cost and delay to require these projects where studies have long been pending or are nearly 
completed to start over in the study process. 
 
116 ANOPR at ¶ 30. 
117 The Secretary called for final rules by April 30, 2026. RTOs and Transmission Owners presumably will have to 
submit compliance filings in response to the final rules. 

--- PAGE 38 ---
38 
Principle 14—Meeting Reliability Standards 
The ANOPR states that “utilities serving large loads must meet all applicable NERC 
reliability standards and OATT provisions.”118 Constellation agrees. To the extent the Commission 
has concerns that large loads may jeopardize reliability, Constellation proposes measures that can 
remedy reliability concerns without delaying large load interconnections. 
It must be remembered that one of the primary benefits of the co-location of large loads 
and generators is that it improves reliability. Co-location that “avoids the use of the grid”—such 
as a large load taking its power directly at a shared point of interconnection with a generator as 
hybrid facilities—minimizes “grid operational risks (because fewer grid infrastructure facilities 
and potential failure points are implicated in serving the load),” while also minimizing 
“transmission infrastructure costs, potential supply chain issues and delays on long-lead 
transmission infrastructure equipment ... [and] line losses.”119 The same logic to applies to both 
new and existing generation as the same benefits are realized by co-locating with an existing 
generator. One of the primary attributes of co-location configurations (all of them) is that they take 
advantage of existing infrastructure and therefore minimize costs.  
The ANOPR’s fourteenth principle on reliability further states that “[u]tilities and we must 
be prepared to revise large load interconnection procedures and agreements, as necessary,”120 
presumably to incorporate reliability protections. This is exactly what Susquehanna Nuclear 
attempted to do over a year ago with its modified interconnection agreement to incorporate a co-
 
118 ANOPR at ¶ 31. 
119 Affidavit of Michael Kormos at ¶ 4 (Exh. 5 to Constellation’s April 23, 2025 Show Cause Answer); see also 
ANOPR at ¶ 20 (highlighting that “siting a large load near or at the same point of interconnection as a new generating 
facility could reduce the network upgrades needed to interconnect only the load or only the generating facility”). 
120 ANOPR at ¶ 31. 

--- PAGE 39 ---
39 
located large load.121 Other utilities in PJM have since refused to process interconnection 
modification requests for co-location projects. As set forth below, the Commission should 
immediately require PJM Transmission Owners to cooperate in current study processes designed 
to ensure reliability, but should also confirm timely utility cooperation is required in any final rule.  
While ensuring the reliability of the grid is essential, large loads also must be served, and 
as quickly as possible, consistent with system reliability. Utility regulation is founded on the 
principle that utilities authorized to operate monopolies must submit to regulation, including price 
regulation and the obligation to extend service to customers within their service territory and to 
provide continued service once commenced.122 The latter is commonly referred to as the “duty to 
serve.” Nearly every jurisdiction in the United States has promulgated regulations establishing a 
duty to serve.123 Although each state applies its own flavor, the general requirement is the same—
an electric utility must serve customers seeking service and cannot unduly discriminate or delay 
such service.124 Illinois’s statute, for example, provides that the duty to serve is “without 
discrimination and without delay.”125 Delays of five, seven, or ten years—which are commonplace 
when trying to connect a large load to the grid—are untenable and objectively cannot be considered 
 
121 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 191 FERC ¶ 61,025, at P 30 (2025). The Commission rejected amendments to a 
Commission-jurisdictional interconnection agreement to accommodate a hybrid facility configuration. Nearly all 
these amendments dealt with reliability issues. 
122 Jim Rossi, Universal Service in Competitive Retail Electric Power Markets: Whither the Duty to Serve?, 21 
ENERGY L. JOURNAL 27 (2000). 
123 See Heather Payne, Unservice: Reconceptualizing the Utility Duty to Serve in Light of Climate Change, 56 UNIV. 
OF RICH. L. REV. 603, 610-12 (2022) (describing the duty to serve in various states). 
124 See, e.g., 220 Ill. Comp. Stat. 5/8-101 (Illinois statute stating that a “public utility shall, upon reasonable notice, 
furnish to all persons who may apply therefor and be reasonably entitled thereto, suitable facilities and service, 
without discrimination and without delay”); N.J. STAT. ANN. § 48:3-3(a) (“No public utility shall provide or 
maintain any service that is unsafe, improper or inadequate, or withhold or refuse any service which reasonably can 
be demanded or furnished....”); VA. CODE ANN. § 56-234(A) (“It shall be the duty of every public utility to furnish 
reasonably adequate service and facilities at reasonable and just rates to any person, firm or corporation along its 
lines desiring same.”). 
125 220 Ill. Comp. Stat. 5/8-101. 

--- PAGE 40 ---
40 
service “without delay.” While “the demand for interconnection by data centers driven by the 
needs of artificial intelligence and other technologies is a recent phenomenon,” the obligation to 
serve load without delay is as old as utility regulation.126  
The FPA also prohibits undue discrimination, with specific provisions against 
discrimination during shortage conditions such as those identified in the ANOPR.127 It is unlawful, 
for example, to decide not to serve large loads to ensure service to others, or to favor new 
generation over existing generation in taking measures to remedy the shortage.128  
Another fact to keep in mind is that PJM and other regions already have extensive market 
design mechanisms, planning requirements, and other carefully developed and scrutinized 
processes to ensure both reliability and resource adequacy (which refers to sufficient capacity and 
is not the same as reliability). This includes existing interconnection study processes that already 
effectively analyze the reliability effects of interconnections.  
If the Commission is concerned that these reliability tools are insufficient, the solution 
cannot be to prevent service to large loads or to delay service for years. The Commission could 
instead improve reliability by adopting the Joint Stakeholder Proposal that Constellation along 
with Amazon, Calpine, Google, Microsoft and Talen proposed, including: (1) load forecast and 
other modeling improvements, (2) limited demand response products that align with the 
curtailments or operation of backup generation that the large loads are willing and able to provide, 
and (3) reliability backstop mechanism enhancements if a forward capacity auction clears 
 
126 Answer and Motion to Dismiss of PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Docket No. EL25-20-000, at 5 (filed Dec. 12, 
2024). 
127 See 16 U.S.C. § 824a(g)(3)(B). 
128 Id. (the “manner” of addressing “any anticipated shortage of electric energy or capacity” to “insure continuity of 
service to customers,” must ensure that all persons served by a public utility are treated “without undue prejudice or 
disadvantage”) (emphasis added). 

--- PAGE 41 ---
41 
insufficient capacity to meet the forecast to ensure there is sufficient available generation if the 
market mechanism fails to do so.129  
Load Forecasting and Modeling Improvements 
One suite of enhancements goes to the persistent problem of load forecasting. Our proposal 
is to: 
 Include only large new loads backed by meaningful, verifiable commitments such 
as executed energy-service agreements, posted credit or collateral, significant 
infrastructure investment, or long-term supply commitments with new or existing 
resources. 
 Use realistic ramp-rate trajectories, utilization factors, and safeguards to avoid 
double-counting across overlapping proposals or procurement paths. 
 Require aggregate large-load forecasts to account for project-realization indicators 
such as historical success rates, development progress, supply-chain constraints 
(e.g., chip availability), independent expert assessments, and structured information 
exchange among large-load customers, PJM, and Transmission Owners. 
New Demand Side Products 
One way of increasing the capacity available to the market is to allow for limited demand 
response products more aligned with the capability of data centers and their backup generation. 
For example, in the stakeholder process, Constellation supported new means of obtaining demand-
side resource adequacy services from large loads (including data centers) that could be offered into 
the capacity market, thereby allowing large loads to tap into their already-available operational 
flexibility to provide resource adequacy services in response to system stress. Large loads could 
voluntarily submit offers into PJM’s capacity auction to serve as limited demand response 
resources under one of two new limited demand response categories: (i) a maximum of 24 
hours/year of curtailment with no single interruption greater than 6 hours and (ii) a maximum of 
 
129 See Exh. 1 (Joint Stakeholder Package). 

--- PAGE 42 ---
42 
100 hours/year of curtailment with no single interruption greater than 10 hours. PJM would 
develop a new Effective Load Carrying Capability (ELCC) for each category allowing large load 
capacity market offers and, if cleared, performance when dispatched by PJM (consistent with the 
limitations associated with their demand response category).     
Reliability Backstop Enhancements 
The Joint Stakeholder Package also proposed enhancements to PJM’s existing Reliability 
Backstop Mechanism to provide further incentives for new resources to enter the market when the 
supply and demand balance is particularly tight. Under this enhancement, eligible resources, 
including new/reactivated generation, existing generation with an offer cap above the highest point 
on the Variable Resource Requirement (“VRR”), and traditional demand response, would have the 
option to offer a minimum term supply commitment, priced at the top of the VRR for a multi-year 
period. Resources cleared by PJM in this fashion would receive a capacity commitment for the 
term of years and price offered. The features of this enhancement were carefully structured to 
respond to only legitimate resource adequacy deficits but to minimize overreliance on potentially 
lower quality and/or out-of-market services which could have a long-term detrimental impact on 
the market and its ability to signal investment when needed. The following elements were included 
in this proposal to strike this balance:  
 To ensure the mechanism is only available in years with a meaningful potential 
shortfall, the reliability backstop alternative would only be triggered in years when 
RPM would otherwise clear below 98% of the reliability requirement. 
 Bidders may offer up to 7 years, but shorter-term offers will clear first to minimize 
the duration of any market intrusion. PJM would stop clearing reliability backstop 
resources once a cleared volume clears above 98% of the reliability requirement. 
 To ensure “phantom” capacity is not offered, eligible resources must be reasonably 
likely to perform in the delivery years cleared. 
 To minimize the impact on clearing prices for the rest of the market, in subsequent 
years, cleared resources with multi-year commitments will be entered into the RPM 

--- PAGE 43 ---
43 
potentially based on the technology-specific default gross avoidable cost minus the 
unit-specific projected Energy and Ancillary Services (“EAS”) offset. 
 To ensure any winning offers do not receive a windfall, if the market clearing price 
in subsequent years is different than their original offer price of cleared multi-year 
resources, the resource will receive the multi-year price agreed – no higher/lower. 
 To ensure the mechanism does not outlast its need, it will be in place for the four 
BRAs corresponding to the current Quadrennial Review (2028/29 through 
2031/32) and will automatically sunset thereafter. 
The Commission should adopt measures like these in a final rule and in an order in the 
PJM Show Cause proceedings. The solution to reliability concerns cannot be to allow service to 
large loads to be delayed for years. 
II. 
The Commission Should Find the Existing PJM Tariff Unjust and Unreasonable and 
Provide Immediate Relief 
A. The Commission Should Immediately Issue a Full Order on the Merits in the 
PJM Show Cause Proceedings 
Consistent with the ANOPR and based on the comprehensive record it has assembled in 
three separate proceedings, comprised of a fully-briefed complaint proceeding, a national inquiry 
into co-location issues, and another fully-briefed Show Cause proceeding (with 38 itemized 
briefing questions), the Commission should issue a full order in the PJM Show Cause proceedings 
confirming its preliminary finding that the PJM Tariff is unjust and unreasonable because it does 
not contain “provisions addressing with sufficient clarity or consistency the rates, terms, and 
conditions of service that apply to co-location arrangements”130 and “[t]he absence of such 
provisions may leave entities unable to determine what steps they can or must take to effectuate 
 
130 PJM Show Cause Order, 190 FERC ¶ 61,115 at P 74. 

--- PAGE 44 ---
44 
co-location arrangements of various configurations.”131 That reasoning remains just as true today, 
and the PJM Tariff’s lack of clarity continues to impede timely large load development.  
The comprehensive record in the PJM Show Cause proceedings also supports a 
Commission ruling on a full replacement rate. That replacement rate should modify the existing 
PJM Tariff to provide for a variety of co-location options to provide strong incentives for large 
new load to locate in places and on terms that maximize the efficiency of the existing transmission 
grid and allow for timely service without jeopardizing reliability or unjustly shifting costs. PJM 
has identified eight potential options for how large, new load might connect to the interstate grid: 
 PJM Option 1: Firm NITS without co-location (i.e., standard service); 
 PJM Option 2: Firm NITS with in-front-of-the-meter co-location (equivalent to 
“hybrid facilities” in the ANOPR where large load and generation share a point of 
interconnection to the grid); 
 PJM Option 3: Firm NITS with the generation behind-the-meter of the load with 
transmission charges based on net usage of the grid (existing “BTMG” under the 
PJM Tariff, which PJM claims is limited to small loads);132 
 PJM Option 4: Co-located behind-the-meter load with “generator-contingent” 
protections; 
 PJM Option 5: Co-located behind-the-meter load with “generator-contingent” 
protections plus as-available energy purchase option; 
 PJM Option 6: Firm NITS with co-location plus expedited generation 
interconnection for BYOG; 
 PJM Option 7: NITS with co-location where load is interruptible (equivalent to 
ANOPR’s Principle 7 on curtailable load);133 and 
 
131 Id. 
132 Contra Constellation’s April 23, 2025 Show Cause Answer at 44 (“there is no size limitation for BTMG in the 
PJM Tariff, and it has been implemented for large loads”). 
133 The Commission should clarify that provisional interruptible services (PJM Option 7 with Constellation’s proposed 
rate treatment) end once the network upgrades are built. See Constellation’s May 8, 2025 Answer at 14. 

--- PAGE 45 ---
45 
 PJM Option 8: NITS with co-location where load participates as demand response. 
(Constellation proposes additional demand response measures in the Joint 
Stakeholder Package).134 
Constellation explained how PJM options 2-5 and 7 were viable replacement rates, with some 
clarifications and modifications, including to the appropriate rate treatment, and the Commission 
should order PJM to implement them in a compliance filing within 60 days.135 
In particular, the Commission should: 
 Adopt a replacement rate that allows for PJM’s proposed co-location configuration 
options, including the equivalent of the ANOPR’s “hybrid facilities” (as defined in 
the ANOPR, equivalent to PJM Option 2), and the ANOPR’s curtailable load 
(equivalent to PJM Option 7), as well as behind-the-meter configurations (PJM 
Options 4 and 5), as clarified and modified by Constellation, with rate treatments 
that recognize the different uses of the transmission system of these different 
configurations,136 and direct PJM to implement the options in a compliance filing 
within 60 days.137 
 Reject Bring-Your-Own-Generation (PJM Option 6) as unduly discriminatory and 
preferential because only new generation would qualify.138 
 Find that the Commission does not have jurisdiction over behind-the-meter sales 
between a co-located generator and load, regardless of whether the load is 
“synchronized” to the grid.139 
 Order Transmission Owners to provide timely participation in relevant studies 
requested by PJM and in the interconnection agreement amendment process.140 
 
134 See Exh. 1; see also supra at Principle 14 (discussing same). 
135 Constellation’s April 23, 2025 Show Cause Answer at 6; see also id. at 50; see also Constellation’s May 8, 2025 
Preliminary Finding Answer at 14-15. 
136 Constellation’s April 23, 2025 Show Cause Answer at 37-38, 65, 108. Note that PJM Option 1 (firm NITS without 
co-location), Option 3 (co-location with behind-the-meter-generation), and Option 8 (firm NITS with demand 
response) all are already in the PJM Tariff. The Commission should clarify that provisional interruptible services 
(PJM Option 7 with Constellation’s proposed rate treatment) ends once the network upgrades are built. See 
Constellation’s May 8, 2025 Preliminary Finding Answer at 14. 
137 Constellation’s April 23, 2025 Show Cause Answer at 6, 52-55; see also Constellation’s May 8, 2025 Preliminary 
Finding Answer at 14-15. 
138 Constellation’s April 23, 2025 Show Cause Answer at 52-55. 
139 Id. at 71-73; see also Herling Affidavit at ¶ 33 (explaining synchronization does not imply transmission usage). 
140 Constellation’s April 23, 2025 Show Cause Answer at 89. 

--- PAGE 46 ---
46 
 Direct Transmission Owners to process load interconnection requests on the same 
timelines regardless of configuration to avoid the exact type of discrimination that 
led to Order No. 2003 for generator interconnections. 
Some will argue that facilitating large load interconnections is a threat to resource adequacy 
and that a full order on the merits in PJM is premature. Constellation recognizes the resource 
adequacy concerns associated with significant load growth. But resource adequacy concerns are 
not a reason to leave interconnection rules undefined, effectively ceding regulatory control to 
Transmission Owner discretion. Nor are they an excuse to discriminate against existing generation 
in favor of new resources.  
Nevertheless, to the extent that the Commission determines reliability enhancements are 
required, the Commission should not delay a ruling in PJM but should proceed on its own 
expedited track. For example, Commission could order PJM to submit compliance filings on the 
Joint Stakeholder Package’s three reliability-enhancing measures that Constellation has proposed 
(jointly with Amazon, Calpine, Google, Microsoft and Talen).141  
The Commission should also direct PJM to propose a standard large load interconnection 
process of 3-6 months for interconnections to transmission facilities,142 consistent with the 
ANOPR’s core expediency concerns. This basic timeline is imperative to get projects moving 
through the interconnection process.  
 
141 See Exh. 1 (Joint Stakeholder Package); see also supra at Principle 14 (discussing same).  
142 See, e.g., Pa. Pub. Utils. Comm'n, Interconnection and Tariffs for Large Load Customers, Docket No. M-2025-
3054271, Tentative Order at 25 (Nov. 6, 2025), https://www.puc.pa.gov/pcdocs/1901687.pdf (proposing a six-
month maximum timeline for completion of interconnection studies for large load customers). 

--- PAGE 47 ---
47 
B. Alternatively, the Commission Should Immediately Issue a Targeted Order in the 
PJM Show Cause Proceedings to Jumpstart Large Load Development 
In the event the Commission determines that it needs more time to issue a comprehensive 
order on the merits in the PJM Show Cause proceedings at this time, it should still at a minimum 
issue an order confirming its preliminary finding that the PJM Tariff is unjust and unreasonable 
and providing targeted rulings consistent with the ANOPR’s principles on three core issues to 
ensure that development of large loads proceeds without further delay: (1) the Commission’s 
jurisdiction includes the interconnection to the grid by hybrid facilities; (2) NITS charges for 
hybrid facilities should be based on the load’s net usage of the transmission system; and (3) PJM 
and Transmission Owners must immediately act on large load studies and process large load 
interconnection requests, including those that have long been pending, to ensure timely 
interconnection of large loads to the grid.  
1. The Commission Should Affirm Jurisdiction Over Hybrid Facilities 
As discussed above, the ANOPR correctly notes the Commission’s jurisdiction over large 
load interconnections to transmission facilities.143 The jurisdictional boundaries relating to large 
load interconnections have been extensively analyzed by the Commission in the PJM Show Cause 
Order, briefed by the scores of parties in PJM Show Cause proceedings in response to the 
Commission briefing questions, and now further analyzed by the Secretary in the ANOPR.144 Yet 
the lack of a Commission determination is enabling utilities to delay the processing of large load 
 
143 ANOPR at ¶ 18; see also Secretary’s Letter at 1 (“It is my view that the interconnection of large loads directly to 
the interstate transmission system to access the transmission system and the electricity transmitted over it falls 
squarely within the Commission's jurisdiction.”) (emphasis added). 
144 See PJM Show Cause Order, 190 FERC ¶ 61,115 at P 88 (Briefing Question a.i. on “jurisdictional principles”); see 
also Constellation’s April 23, 2025 Show Cause Answer at 68-74 (answering). 

--- PAGE 48 ---
48 
interconnection requests and use their control over the process to force load to accede to 
distribution service or configurations that make netting impossible.  
Accordingly, the Commission should issue an order in PJM that at a minimum finds that 
the interconnection of hybrid facilities—where a large load and a generator share a point of 
interconnection—is FERC-jurisdictional. The Commission could make the same finding with 
respect to all large load interconnections connecting to the interstate grid and taking transmission 
service, but to the extent the Commission determines it needs further briefing on some large load 
interconnections, it should still address the interconnection of hybrid facilities—facilities over 
which the Commission already has asserted jurisdiction with respect to the generator connected to 
them.  
2. The Commission Should Rule that Hybrid Facilities Should Pay Net NITS 
The Commission should rule that the appropriate transmission rate for hybrid facilities 
sharing an interconnection to the transmission grid is based on the load’s net usage of the 
transmission system, “reflect[ing] the quantity of capacity and energy that is being transmitted 
across the transmission system to the load.”145  
Constellation has long advocated that transmission service based on “net” usage of the 
transmission system is the correct rate for an in-front-of-the-meter co-location configuration where 
the load and generator share the same interstate point of interconnection (what the ANOPR calls 
“hybrid facilities” and equivalent to PJM Option 2 in the PJM Show Cause proceedings). As set 
forth in detail below, Constellation has also explained why it may also be appropriate to charge 
the greater of net withdrawals or a standby charge for hybrid facilities sharing an interconnection 
 
145 ANOPR at ¶ 28. As set forth in our discussion of Principle 11, the ANOPR appears to equate withdrawal rights 
with the quantity of capacity and energy being transmitted to a large load or hybrid facilities. They are not always 
equivalent. 

--- PAGE 49 ---
49 
to the interstate grid. This issue of netting has been a long-standing point of disagreement in the 
ongoing complaint, Show Cause and other proceedings—including one Commission-rejected 
attempt by Transmission Owners to amend the PJM Tariff to require gross charges146—that can 
be quickly resolved through the PJM Show Cause proceedings. For purposes of an immediate 
order in PJM, the Commission should affirm NITS charges for hybrid facilities should be based 
on net transmission usage, not gross.   
3. The Commission Should Require PJM and Transmission Owners to 
Immediately Act on Large Load Studies and Interconnections 
The ANOPR’s central objective is “to ensure the timely and orderly interconnection of 
large loads.”147 Accordingly, the Commission should order Transmission Owners to timely 
process large load requests. Currently, they are not all doing so. Large load projects that are moving 
forward are either the transmission utilities’ own projects, or projects where the customer agrees 
to connect in exactly the configuration that the utilities—in their unilateral discretion—require. 
This is untenable and is blocking progress on critical infrastructure development needed to 
facilitate AI. It also is contrary to the core objectives of Order No. 888 to stop Transmission 
Owners from granting faster service to their own or to favored projects.148 
In the PJM Show Cause Order it issued nine months ago, the Commission preliminarily 
found that the “lack of applicable [PJM] Tariff provisions raises the potential for undue 
discrimination or preferential treatment,” citing in support record evidence of Exelon’s refusal to 
 
146 Atl. City Elec. Co., 190 FERC ¶ 61,109. 
147 ANOPR at ¶ 1. 
148 Promoting Wholesale Competition Through Open Access Non-discriminatory Transmission Services by Public 
Utilities and Recovery of Stranded Costs by Public Utilities and Transmitting Utilities, Order No. 888, FERC Stats. 
& Regs. P 31,036 (1996), order on reh’g, Order No. 888-A, FERC Stats. & Regs. P 31,048 (1997), order on 
reh’g, Order No. 888-B, 81 FERC ¶ 61,248 (1997), order on reh’g, Order No. 888-C, 82 FERC ¶ 61,046 (1998). 

--- PAGE 50 ---
50 
process Constellation’s co-location projects because—according to Exelon—co-location of load 
and generation is “not allowed under the Tariff without arranging for wholesale transmission or 
retail distribution service.”149 Nothing relevant to the Commission’s prior preliminary finding has 
changed since then—despite the fact that the PJM Tariff already states that PJM “is responsible 
for the preparation of all studies required by the Tariff … [and] Transmission Owner(s) shall 
supply such information and data reasonably required.”150  
Accordingly, the Commission should immediately order the following: 
 PJM must establish a timeline – with milestones – for the completion of load 
interconnection studies for hybrid in-front-of-the-meter configurations (those 
where load is connecting at the same point on the transmission system as the 
existing or new generation), with an absolute study completion deadline, including 
Transmission Owner input, of six months.  
 PJM must require that Transmission Owners comply, cooperate in, and provide 
timely feedback on the Necessary Studies and other processes to ensure completion 
within PJM’s timeline for large load interconnection requests that are behind-the-
meter arrangements.  
 PJM must compile and maintain a list of all pending large load interconnection 
requests (over a certain size threshold and with defined meaningful/verifiable 
commitments) and require progress updates from the applicable Transmission 
Owner every 30 days. 
 PJM must file a quarterly status report with the Commission on all pending large 
load interconnection requests and Necessary Studies. In the same docket, PJM must 
submit a monthly information filing to the Commission in the event that any 
Transmission Owner misses a milestone or fails to make meaningful progress on 
any pending large load interconnection request in the previous 30 days. The 
Commission should require Transmission Owners to explain the lack of progress 
within five days. 
 No Transmission Owner can expedite service or study processing for projects 
taking the Transmission Owner’s preferred type of service or configuration, or 
refuse to process a complete large load interconnection request on the ground that 
 
149 PJM Show Cause Order, 190 FERC ¶ 61,115 at P 75. 
150 PJM OATT Part VII, § 322. 

--- PAGE 51 ---
51 
the large load has not “arranged for wholesale transmission or retail distribution 
service.”  
 Transmission Owners will be subject to referral to the Commission’s Office of 
Enforcement for any failure to diligently process large load interconnection 
requests or for conditioning the processing of such requests on the applicant’s 
acceding to the Transmission Owner’s favored configuration or unnecessary 
services, so that the Commission can investigate any Tariff or statutory violations 
(including undue discrimination or preference, manipulation, or false 
communications). 
 Clarify that Transmission Owners must complete any large load interconnection 
studies and Necessary Studies already in progress, and any studies that are 
substantially completed when the Commission accepts final compliance filings on 
large load interconnection rules need not restart the study process. 
These requirements would immediately get numerous data center projects back on track. 
While the Commission has the record to rule on the merits of every issue in the PJM Show 
Cause proceeding, and should do so, to the extent the Commission decides otherwise, it should at 
least issue rulings on these three issues. Doing so would be a critical first step to implementing the 
ANOPR in PJM.151 
CONCLUSION 
WHEREFORE, Constellation requests that the Commission propose and implement a final 
large load interconnection rule consistent with the Secretary of Energy’s fourteen principles, as 
qualified herein, by April 30, 2026. Constellation also requests an immediate comprehensive order 
on the merits in the PJM Show Cause proceedings as informed by the guidance in the ANOPR. To 
the extent that the Commission is not prepared to issue a full PJM order on the merits on the well-
 
151 The Commission could also require PJM to submit a compliance filing on the Joint Stakeholder Package of three 
reliability-enhancing reforms. See Exh. 1 (Joint Stakeholder Package). The Commission should also direct PJM to 
propose a standard large load interconnection process of 3-6 months for interconnections to transmission facilities. 

--- PAGE 52 ---
52 
developed record in those proceedings, Constellation requests an order in PJM on (1) jurisdiction, 
(2) rates, and (3) timeliness. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
November 21, 2025 
 
Carrie Hill Allen 
Sr. Vice President & Deputy General Counsel 
Seth Lucia 
Assistant General Counsel 
Constellation Energy Generation, LLC 
250 Massachusetts Ave. NW, Suite 760 
Washington, D.C. 20001 
carrie.allen@constellation.com 
seth.lucia@constellation.com 
  
Christopher A. Wilson 
Managing Director, Federal Regulatory Affairs 
Constellation Energy Generation, LLC 
250 Massachusetts Ave. NW, Suite 760 
Washington, D.C. 20001 
202-347-7500 
FERCe-filings1@constellation.com 
 
/s/ Paul F. Wight  
 
 
Paul F. Wight 
Carolyn E. Clarkin 
DLA Piper LLP (US) 
500 Eighth Street NW 
Washington, D.C. 20004 
703-773-4058 
paul.wight@us.dlapiper.com  
carolyn.clarkin@us.dlapiper.com  
 
Jacob I. Chefitz 
DLA Piper LLP (US) 
1251 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, NY 10020 
212-335-4500 
jacob.chefitz@us.dlapiper.com  
 
Counsel for Constellation Energy 
Generation, LLC 

--- PAGE 53 ---
Exhibit 1 
 
Joint Stakeholder Package 
PJM CIFP – Large Load Additions 

--- PAGE 54 ---
Joint Stakeholder Package
PJM CIFP – Large Load Additions
Amazon, Calpine, Constellation, Google, Microsoft, Talen
November 7, 2025
1

--- PAGE 55 ---
Package
•
Large Load Forecasting Improvements
•
Demand Side
•
Reliability Backstop Alternative 
2

--- PAGE 56 ---
Large Load Forecasting Improvements
•
Only include large new load that has a meaningful/verifiable commitment. Examples 
of which include:
o Energy Service Agreement
o Credit/collateral support 
o Financially significant infrastructure investment
o Long-term supply commitment with new or existing resources
•
Improve large load modeling assumptions including, but not limited to, ramp rate 
assumptions, utilization rates, and reduction of double counting
•
Implement a Large Load Forecast “Reality Check”: Consider other relevant factors 
that may predict whether all proposed large load is likely to come to fruition. 
Examples include, but are not limited to:
o Historic large load success rate and development progress reviews along with 
comparison to supplemental projects
o Supply chain and other limitations such as chip (un)availability  
o Other business expert reviews (McKinsey, S&P, BNEF, LEI Study, LBNL, etc.)
o Conversations/information exchange among large load customers, PJM, and TOs
3

--- PAGE 57 ---
New Demand Side Products
•
Voluntary large load limited demand response
o Allow large load to clear as limited demand response. Discounted 
Effective Load Carrying Capability (ELCC) to reflect the reduced 
availability. Two, new limited products would be defined as:
•
24 hours/year with no single interruption greater than 6 hours
•
100 hours/year  with no single interruption greater than 10 hours
•
Back-up generator operations
o Provide relief during system emergencies using back-up generators. Agree 
to operate within criteria acceptable to the owners (i.e., consistent with 
their commitment to the environment, noise reduction, etc.). Establish 
new PJM emergency procedure step, 9A, for deployment immediately 
prior to manual load dump. Discounted ELCC to reflect the reduced 
availability. 
4

--- PAGE 58 ---
Reliability Backstop Alternative
•
The following reliability backstop alternative would only be utilized if 
triggered.
o Trigger: Only used in years when RPM clears below 98% of the reliability 
requirement.
•
Avoid overreliance on potentially lower quality and/or out-of-market services 
which could have a long-term impact on the market and its ability to signal 
investment when needed. Every attempt made to minimize such impact 
although it can’t be eliminated.
5

--- PAGE 59 ---
Reliability Backstop Alternative (cont.)
•
Eligible resources can (at their option) offer a minimum term supply commitment at the top of the Variable 
Resource Requirement (VRR) curve.
•
Bidders may offer up to 7 years but shorter-term offers will clear first.
•
Eligible resources include: new/reactivated generation, existing generation with an offer cap above top of the 
VRR curve, traditional demand response. 
•
Eligible resources must be reasonably likely to perform in the delivery years cleared.
•
In subsequent years, cleared resources with multi-year commitments will be entered into the RPM potentially 
based on the technology-specific default gross avoidable cost minus the unit-specific projected Energy and 
Ancillary Services (EAS) offset.
•
If the market clearing price in subsequent years is different than their original offer price of cleared multi-year 
resources, the resource will receive the multi-year price agreed – no higher/lower.  
•
Mechanism will be in place for the four BRAs corresponding to the current Quadrennial Review (2028/29 through 
2031/32) and will automatically sunset
•
 
6

--- PAGE 60 ---
Summary
Proposed Solution Options
•
Improve load forecast.
•
Utilize new demand side resource products.
•
In the event the system remains short, utilize reliability backstop alternative.
Other Future Potential Considerations
•
Extension of cap and floor, with price adjustments
•
Improvement of energy and ancillary service markets
Feedback
7

--- PAGE 61 ---
Appendix
8

--- PAGE 62 ---
PJM Emergency Procedure Steps
•
EEA1 = PJM Maximum Generation Emergency Alert
•
Step 1: Pre-Emergency Load Management Reduction Action (30, 60 or 120-minute) 
•
Step 2: Emergency Load Management Reduction Action (30, 60 or 120-minute) (EEA2)
•
Step 3 (real-time): Primary Reserve Warning
•
Step 4 A (Real-time): Maximum Generation Emergency Action (M18 – Max Emergency 
Generation Action)
•
Step 4 B (Real-time): Emergency Voluntary Energy Only Demand Response Reduction 
Action
•
Step 5 (Real-time): Voltage Reduction Warning & Reduction of Non-Critical Plant Load 
(EEA2)
•
Step 6 (Real-time): Curtailment of Non-Essential Building Load
•
Step 7 (Real-time): Deploy All Resources Action
•
Step 8 (Real-time): Manual Load Dump Warning
•
Step 9 (Real-time): Voltage Reduction Action (EEA2)
•
Step 10 (Real-time): Manual Load Dump Action (EEA3)
•
Load Shed Directive 
9
