--- PAGE 1 ---
1 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System 
 
) 
)   Docket No. RM26-4 
) 
) 
) 
 
Comment of the Harvard Electricity Law Initiative1 
On March 30, WIRES filed supplemental comments, including a report by 
Concentric Energy Advisors modeling transmission payments by a large-load 
customer. The report’s analysis depends on an assumption that Commission policy 
prohibits a utility from “simultaneously charging an interconnection customer both 
a rolled-in rate and an incremental rate (otherwise known as the prohibition 
against ‘and’ pricing).”2   
We make three points in response: 
1) WIRES’ analysis shows that ratepayers face increased costs and risks under 
either rolled-in pricing or direct assignment of network upgrade costs; 
2) The prohibition against ‘and’ pricing aims at protecting wholesale market 
competition and should not prevent large-load customers from paying their full 
costs of service; and 
3) To protect ratepayers, the Commission should clarify its pricing policy. We 
summarize four additional approaches to large-load transmission pricing and show 
how each fits with existing Commission policies.    
1) Require large-load customers to pay for network upgrades and credit those 
payments against payment of the standard transmission rate; 
2) Award “interconnection rights” to large-load customers in exchange for 
payment of network-upgrade costs and charge those customers the standard 
transmission rate for their use of the network; 
 
1 The Harvard Electricity Law Initiative is an independent organization based at Harvard Law 
School’s Environmental & Energy Law Program. These comments do not represent the views of 
Harvard University or Harvard Law School.  
2 Supplemental Comments of WIRES, Docket No. RM26-4, at 4 (Mar. 30, 2026). 

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
 
3) Explore “disaggregated pricing” that would charge the standard rate for 
existing capacity available for the large-load customer and the incremental 
rate for additional capacity needed to deliver power to the customer’s 
remaining demand that cannot be met without upgrades; and 
4) Clarify that the prohibition against ‘and’ pricing was never intended to apply 
to large-load customers and find rates unjust and unreasonable if they charge 
less than the cost of network upgrades and the standard transmission rate.  
I. 
WIRES’ Analysis Shows That Ratepayers Face Increased Costs and 
Risks under Either Rolled-In Pricing or Direct Assignment of 
Network Upgrade Costs 
 
The WIRES-filed report calculates transmission payments by a hypothetical 
200-megawatt customer under two cost allocation approaches. Under the first 
approach, the large-load customer pays a standard transmission rate, like all other 
transmission customers, with the costs of network upgrades needed to serve the 
large-load customer rolled into the utility’s rate base and recovered from all 
ratepayers. Under the second approach, network upgrade costs are assigned directly 
to the large-load customer, which pays only those incremental expansion costs and 
is excused from paying the standard transmission rate, also called the NITS rate.3  
The report finds that, given specified network upgrade costs,4 cumulative 
payments under direct assignment exceed cumulative payments under the NITS 
rate for approximately the first fifteen years.5 During that period, a large-load 
customer paying only the NITS rate would contribute less than the cost of the 
network upgrades built to serve it, a shortfall borne by other ratepayers. Because 
the NITS rate does not recover from the large-load customer the costs its 
interconnection directly imposes on other ratepayers, ratepayers initially subsidize 
 
3 The report models two options: upfront payment or a cost-of-service recovery of network upgrade 
costs over several years. 
4 Id. at 15, n.12 (explaining the $1.16M per MW estimate for network upgrade costs); id. at 10 
(analyzing when network upgrade costs are reduced by 50 percent). 
5 See Figure 1 at 2, which is reproduced on the next page. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
 
the large-load customer. The amount and duration of the subsidy depend on the cost 
of the network upgrades and the rate design. 
 
Figure 1 from the WIRES-filed report, which illustrates the short-term costs (to the left of the star) 
and long-term risks (to the right of the star) of the pricing approaches investigated in the report. 
The study focuses on the period after the crossover point (the star on Figure 
1), when cumulative payments under the NITS rate eventually surpass cumulative 
direct assignment payments. It labels this divergence a “cost shift” from the large-
load customer to other ratepayers. But the study does not characterize the prior 
fifteen-year period as a cost shift in the opposite direction. 
The study’s framing depends on a 30-year study period that may far exceed a 
large-load customer’s operational life.6 State-jurisdictional large-load tariffs and 
contracts between utilities and data centers include far shorter terms.7 If the large-
load customer paying the NITS rate departs the system before the crossover point, 
 
6 See, e.g., Table 1 at 2 (showing “cost shifts” over a 30-year period).  
7 See Latitude Intelligence, The Terms of Power: Inside the New Utility Rates for Data Centers (Mar. 
2026) (surveying state-jurisdictional contracts and tariffs between utilities and data centers and 
finding terms of 8 years (Ohio), 10 years (Oregon), 12 years (Missouri, Kansas), 15 years (Michigan, 
Pennsylvania), 19 years (Michigan), and 20 years (Florida)). Also, note that payments may be lower 
during early “ramp up” years. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
 
the only cost shift that would have materialized runs from ratepayers to the large-
load customer.  
While the utility can prevent this cost shift by charging the large-load 
customer for upgrades, that solution introduces a longer-term risk for ratepayers. 
Under the report’s understanding of Commission pricing policy, a large-load 
customer that pays only for network upgrades permanently avoids paying the NITS 
rate. Despite relying on the network, the large-load customer pays nothing for its 
ongoing development, replacement, maintenance, or operations.8 The report 
illustrates that the magnitude of this free-rider problem grows with each year the 
large-load customer remains on the system. 
According to WIRES’ comment accompanying the report, the Commission’s 
current transmission pricing policy burdens ratepayers with these short-term costs 
and long-term risks. WIRES claims that the Commission prevents a utility from 
directly assigning network upgrade costs to a large-load customer and charging that 
customer the NITS rate.9 This prohibition against ‘and’ pricing, according to 
WIRES, forces the utility to charge either an incremental rate that reflects the 
network upgrade costs or the standard rate. As discussed below, the prohibition 
against ‘and’ pricing was developed in a fundamentally different industry context 
and does not compel the result illustrated by the WIRES report. 
 
8 The WIRES report ignores a recent Commission order rejecting a transmission agreement in part 
because it charged only for network upgrades for the initial five-year contract term and nothing 
more, which the Commission concluded shifted costs to the utility’s captive ratepayers. But the 
Commission did not require the utility to charge the standard rate after the initial contract term. See 
Duke Energy Carolinas, 193 FERC ¶ 61,237 at PP 18-20 (2025).  
9 WIRES Comment at 4 (“The analysis was performed under a framework that assumes application 
of the Commission’s longstanding pricing policy, which prohibits simultaneously charging an 
interconnection customer both a rolled-in rate and an incremental rate (otherwise known as the 
prohibition against “and” pricing).13 Under the ANOPR’s proposed direct assignment recovery 
framework - and hypothesizing that the Commission’s “and” pricing prohibition applies – the 
analysis presumes that large load customers would be exempt from NITS charges that fund ongoing 
development, maintenance, and operation of the overall transmission system.”) 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
 
II. 
The Prohibition Against ‘and’ Pricing Protects Wholesale Market 
Competition and Should not Prevent Large-Load Customers from Paying 
Their Full Costs of Service 
The Commission issued its Transmission Pricing Policy Statement “in light of 
the significant competitive changes occurring in wholesale generation markets [in 
1994], and in light of [its] expanded wheeling authority under the Energy Policy Act 
of 1992.”10 The “basic premise” underlying the Policy Statement was “that 
comparable access to efficiently priced transmission services is critical to the 
continued development of a competitive wholesale power market.”11 
The Policy Statement was rooted in principles that the Commission derived 
from Federal Power Act sections 205, 206, 211, and 212.12 That the Commission 
looked to two sections about wheeling underscores that the Policy Statement was 
aimed at facilitating wholesale market competition and not at assigning 
transmission costs to large-load customers. The history of the Commission’s 
prohibition in the Policy Statement against ‘and’ pricing reinforces that the policy 
was not designed for large-load customers. 
The critical proceeding about ‘and’ pricing was initiated by Pennsylvania 
Electric Company (Penelec) in 1991.13 Penelec filed a transmission service 
agreement to provide wheeling service for a 60-megawatt cogenerator that had 
contracted to sell energy to Niagara Mohawk, a neighboring utility. Penelec claimed 
 
10 Inquiry Concerning the Commission’s Pricing Policy for Transmission Services Provided by Public 
Utilities Under the Federal Power Act; Policy Statement, 59 Fed. Reg. 55031 (Nov. 3, 1994) 
[Hereinafter Transmission Pricing Policy Statement]; see also SPP, 131 FERC ¶ 61,252 at P 64 
(summarizing that the “increased reliance on market forces to meet power supply needs; new market 
entrants such as exempt wholesale generators; a significant number of utility mergers and 
combinations; more highly integrated operation of various power pools; and substantial bulk power 
trading among electric systems,” led the Commission to adopt the Transmission Pricing Policy 
Statement (quoting Notice of Technical Conference and Request for Comments in Inquiry Concerning 
the Commission's Pricing Policy for Transmission Services Provided by Public Utilities under the 
Federal Power Act, 58 Fed. Reg. 36,400, 36,401 (1993)). 
11 Transmission Pricing Policy Statement at 55033-34. 
12 Id. at 55033. 
13 Pennsylvania Electric Co., 58 FERC ¶ 61,278, at p. 61,869 (1992). 

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
 
that transmitting the cogenerator’s power would use transmission capacity that 
would otherwise import lower-cost energy for Penelec’s captive ratepayers and 
reduce their cost of service.14   
Penelec therefore proposed to charge the cogenerator both an embedded-cost 
rate that would recover Penelec’s investment in the existing transmission network 
and an opportunity-cost rate that would reflect the lost savings due to the energy it 
could no longer import. That combined rate, Penelec claimed, would allocate a fair 
share of transmission costs to the generator and protect Penelec’s ratepayers 
against any cost increases.15 
The Commission rejected Penelec’s proposal, finding that the proposed rate 
“conflicts” with the Commission’s “goal of charging the lowest reasonable rate for 
firm, third-party transmission service.”16 Quoting a prior order in another 
proceeding, the Commission concluded that Penelec’s proposal  
in effect . . . would be charging twice for the same transmission 
capacity, i.e., charging the basic non-firm rate it would receive if it 
used the capacity to serve the third party and charging the foregone 
benefits it would receive if it used that same capacity for a different 
purpose. Since the utility cannot use the same capacity at the same 
time for two different purposes, it would be unreasonable to allow it to 
charge rates reflecting dual use of the same capacity.17 
 
The Commission allowed Penelec to charge the higher of: 1) the embedded 
cost rate paid by Penelec’s captive ratepayers; or 2) opportunity costs, “capped at 
Penelec’s incremental cost of expanding its system in order to alleviate any 
 
14 Id. at 61,870 (“Penelec concludes that some portion of Penntech’s generation transmitted to 
Niagara Mohawk ‘will flow over the limiting west to east transmission lines and thereby reduce the 
amount of lower cost western power’ available to native load customers on the GPU system” (quoting 
Penelec’s filing)); Pennsylvania Electric Co., reh’g order, 60 FERC ¶ 61,034, at p. 61,126 (1992).  
15 Id. (summarizing Penelec’s claims that the embedded cost rate would compensate for “the benefits 
of the entire Penelec transmission system” and that “an additional charge is justified to compensate 
native load customers for the incremental costs of serving Penntech”). 
16 Id. at p. 61,873. 
17 Id. (quoting Re Northeast Utilities Service Co., 58 FERC ¶ 61,069, at p. 61,180 (1992). 

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
 
transmission constraints that may occur during the 20-year contract period as a 
result of providing the [generator with] service.”18 The cap would “provide an 
incentive for the utility to expand its system when it is efficient to do so” and 
“ensure that opportunity cost pricing will not be a vehicle for the utility to 
artificially restrict the supply of transmission in order to collect monopoly rents.”19 
 
On rehearing, the Commission reiterated it was rejecting Penelec’s proposal 
because it would “result in it charging twice for the same transmission capacity.”20 
The Commission believed that its “challenge” was “to reach a pricing decision that 
ensures that the third-party transmission rate is just and reasonable,”21 and that 
“rates reflecting dual use of the same capacity are unreasonable.”22 Reviewing the 
evidence, the Commission concluded that “in Penelec’s case, the numbers show that  
. . . application of the Commission’s ‘or’ condition . . . will benefit Penelec’s native 
load.”23 Finally, in rejecting the utility industry’s argument that ‘or’ pricing was 
inefficient, the Commission summed up that “under the ‘or’ approach, wheeling 
prices promote efficiency by allowing the best use to be made of existing 
transmission facilities. The ‘and’ approach, on the other hand, distorts price signals, 
discourages efficient trades, and results in unreasonable subsidies.”24  
 
Two years after the Penelec proceeding, the Commission issued its 
Transmission Pricing Policy Statement. With little discussion, the Policy Statement 
forbids “so-called ‘and’ pricing, which would add an embedded cost rate to an 
incremental cost rate for the same service over the same facilities.”25 To support the 
 
18 Id. 
19 Id. at p. 61,874. 
20 Pennsylvania Electric Co., 60 FERC ¶ 61,034, at p. 61,122 (1992) (emphasis added). 
21 Id. at p. 61,123.  
22 Id. at p. 61,122 (emphasis added). 
23 Id. at p. 61,126 (emphasis added). 
24 Id. at p. 61,129. 
25 Transmission Pricing Policy Statement at 55037 (emphasis added). 

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 
 
prohibition against ‘and’ pricing, the Policy Statement cites only the Penelec orders. 
As the Commission made clear in that proceeding, its aim was to prevent utilities 
from exercising market power. The ‘and’ pricing prohibition promoted competition 
by preventing utilities from “charging twice for the same transmission capacity” in 
order to raise their competitors’ costs. The Commission’s alternative, so-called 
‘higher-of’ or ‘or’ pricing capped at the incremental rate, would ensure the utility did 
not “artificially restrict the supply of transmission.”26 
With good reason, the Policy Statement does not discuss transmission pricing 
for large-load customers. The industry was then dominated by vertically integrated 
utilities with captive retail customers who paid a single rate for generation and 
delivery. New large loads were retail customers of vertically integrated utilities, and 
their rates were set by state commissions, not FERC. The entire framework the 
Policy Statement addressed — wheeling, third-party transmission service, 
wholesale competition — had nothing to do with how end-use customers then paid 
for transmission.  
 
The Policy Statement relates to another Commission policy, which is to 
generally prohibit direct assignment of transmission facilities to specific customers. 
The Commission has reasoned that “even if a customer can be said to have caused 
the addition of a grid facility, the addition represents a system expansion used by 
and benefitting all users due to the integrated nature of the grid.”27 Under this 
approach, the “higher of” pricing policy provides utilities with two pricing options 
for “only one service—service over the entire grid.” The Commission has strictly 
applied this policy to contracts with load-serving entities, such as municipal or 
cooperatively owned utilities.28 Yet the Commission has also created a sweeping 
 
26 Pennsylvania Electric Co., 58 FERC ¶ 61,278, at p. 61,874 (1992). 
27 Re Public Service Co. of Colorado, 62 FERC ¶ 61,013, at p. 61,061 (1993). 
28 See, e.g., Northeast Texas Electric Cooperative, Inc., et al., 108 FERC ¶ 61,084 (2004). 

--- PAGE 9 ---
9 
 
exception that is difficult to justify based on the rule’s rationale. Interconnecting 
generators must pay for network upgrades that would not be needed “but for” the 
interconnection.29 
In the next section, we summarize how the Commission uses pricing policy to 
reconcile the distinction between interconnecting generators and other transmission 
customers and argue that the pricing policy for interconnecting generators provides 
a model for large-load customers. 
III. 
To Protect Ratepayers, the Commission Should Clarify Its Pricing Policy  
Commission pricing policy should address both the short-term costs and long-
term risks to ratepayers that the WIRES report highlights and that are discussed 
above in Part I. Requiring large-load customers to pay directly-assigned network 
upgrade costs ensures that the specific costs imposed on the system by their 
interconnection are recovered from them, regardless of how long the customer 
remains on the system. Requiring those same customers to also pay the NITS rate 
ensures that they contribute to the embedded costs of the network they use for as 
long as they use it. 
We discuss four options: 
1) Require large-load customers to pay for network upgrades and credit 
those payments against charges under the NITS rate; 
2) Issue “interconnection rights” to large-load customers in exchange for 
payment of network-upgrade costs and charge those customers the NITS 
rate for their use of the network; 
3) Explore “disaggregated pricing” that would charge the NITS rate for 
existing capacity available for the large-load customer and the 
incremental rate for additional capacity needed to deliver power to the 
customer’s remaining demand that cannot be met without upgrades; and 
4) Clarify that the prohibition against “and” pricing was never intended to 
apply to large-load customers and find that any rate charged to a large-
 
29 Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 61,103 at P 694 (2003). 

--- PAGE 10 ---
10 
 
load customer that is less than the NITS rate and the costs of network 
upgrades is unjust and unreasonable.  
We explain that the first three options are consistent with existing 
Commission policies. The final option requires two clarifications. First, the 
Commission should reiterate that the prohibition against ‘and’ pricing bars stacking 
two cost measures for the same service over the same facilities but does allow 
separate charges for separate facilities or services. Second, building off of 
statements about generator interconnections, the Commission could conclude that 
requiring large-load customers to pay for network upgrades and the NITS rate 
ensures just and reasonable rates. 
1, 2: Charge the Large-Load Customer for Network Upgrades and Credit those 
Payments Against Transmission Charges under the NITS Rate or Issue 
“Interconnection Rights” in Exchange for Network Upgrade Payments   
We cover the first two options together because both are discussed in Order 
No. 2003, which standardized generator interconnection processes. As noted, the 
Commission requires interconnecting generators to pay for network upgrades that 
would not be needed “but for” the interconnection.30 Once the generator commences 
operation, the utility may charge the generator for transmission service. To avoid 
the prohibition against ‘and’ pricing, the Commission requires the interconnecting 
utility to credit the cost of the network upgrades that are paid by the generator 
against the generator’s transmission rate.31  
This crediting policy, according to the Commission, would foster wholesale 
competition.32 Vertically integrated utilities had traditionally rolled in network 
upgrade costs for their own generators into their NITS rates. Providing 
transmission bill credits to non-utility generators would put them on equal footing 
 
30 Id. 
31 Id. In practice, this approach is implemented outside of RTO/ISOs. 
32 Id. 

--- PAGE 11 ---
11 
 
with utility-owned generators, consistent with the “comparability” principle that is 
at the heart of Open Access transmission.33 Relatedly, the Commission hoped that 
the crediting policy would mitigate utilities’ incentives to inflate network upgrade 
costs in order to block new market entrants.34 
The Commission allowed RTOs to develop their own pricing policies because 
an RTO’s independence from transmission owners reduced the likelihood of unduly 
discriminatory charges.35 The Commission therefore permitted RTOs to directly 
assign network-upgrade costs without providing bill credits.36 In Order No. 2003, 
the Commission also pointed to PJM’s policy of awarding interconnecting 
generators “capacity rights that are created by the upgrades” in exchange for 
network-upgrade payments and determined that PJM would not be violating the 
prohibition against ‘and’ pricing if it also charged generators the NITS rate.37 
Payments for network upgrades and the NITS rate, the Commission concluded, 
were two “separate charges for separate services.”38  
These two interconnection pricing policies for generators could be adapted for 
large-load customers. Under either approach, the utility would directly assign 
network upgrade costs to the large-load customer and charge the NITS rate. Under 
the first approach, the utility would credit payments for network upgrades against 
the NITS charges. This approach would address the timing problem described in 
Part I. Requiring the large-load customer to pay for network upgrades upfront 
would ensure that ratepayers do not subsidize the customer’s interconnection. The 
 
33 Id. See Order No. 888-A, 62 Fed. Reg. 12774, 12776 (Mar. 14, 1997) (summarizing that one of the 
two “central components” of Order No. 888 is that it “requires non-discriminatory (comparable) 
treatment for all eligible users of the monopolists’ transmission facilities”).  
34 Id. at P 696. 
35 Id. at PP 701, 827. 
36 Id. at P 700. 
37 Id. at P 700. 
38 Id. 

--- PAGE 12 ---
12 
 
upgrade payments would then offset NITS charges for some period of time, after 
which the customer would pay the full NITS rate and contribute to the embedded 
system costs for as long as it stays on the system.  
The second approach would not provide any bill credits but instead award the 
large-load customer “rights” to withdraw energy from the network beyond what 
paying the standard rate already provides to a transmission customer.39 In Order 
No. 2003, the Commission observed that these rights were “well-defined, long-term 
and tradeable,”40 but did not require that the injection rights have any of these 
features to constitute a “separate service.” 
This option may raise jurisdictional issues that are already front-and-center 
in this proceeding. While the ANOPR proposes that the Commission regulate large-
load interconnections to the transmission system, many utilities and state 
regulators have urged the Commission not to exercise this authority. To the extent 
that the Commission asserts jurisdiction over transmission-level interconnection, as 
the ANOPR anticipates, the Commission could consider creating “interconnection 
rights” that would effectuate this pricing approach.  
3: Explore “Disaggregated Pricing” that Would Charge the NITS Rate for 
Existing Capacity Available for the Large-Load Customer and the Incremental 
Rate for Additional Capacity Needed to Deliver Power to the Customer’s 
Remaining Demand that Cannot Be Met without Upgrades  
As discussed, the Commission’s prohibition against ‘and’ pricing prevents 
utilities from stacking two cost measures for the same facility. But the policy does 
not prevent cost recovery of different facilities using distinct cost measures. A 
footnote in the Policy Statement immediately following the ‘and’ pricing prohibition 
 
39 The Commission recently explained that in PJM a transmission customer paying the standard 
rate “gains the right to be served from the transmission system at any time.” PJM Interconnection, et 
al., 193 FERC ¶ 61,217 at P 195 (2025).  
40 Id. at P 700. 

--- PAGE 13 ---
13 
 
invited utilities to propose “embedded costs for some lines . . . and incremental cost 
for other lines.”41 The Commission distinguished such “disaggregated” pricing from 
the forbidden practice of collecting “two measures of a single cost.”42 
In 2014, the Commission approved contracts that applied this disaggregated 
framework. In that proceeding, the utility separated a wind farm’s transmission 
service request into three tranches, priced differently to reflect the utility’s 
available transmission capacity and costs of needed upgrades.43 The utility priced 
the first tranche at the embedded cost of its existing network because there was 
sufficient capacity available to transmit that tranche of energy. The other two 
tranches reflected the “higher of” embedded costs or the costs of upgrades needed to 
transmit the additional energy.44 
Disaggregated pricing for large-load customers could be worth exploring. 
Under this pricing approach, the utility would charge the embedded cost rate for the 
portion of the customer’s demand that can be accommodated by the existing 
network. For the customer’s remaining demand, the utility would charge a rate that 
reflects the higher of the incremental expansion costs or the embedded cost rate.  
Rather than merely allowing the utility to charge the ‘higher of’ rate for each 
tranche, the Commission could require utilities to charge the higher rate. The 
Commission could also require utilities to disclose such disaggregated rates. 
Transparency would reveal to the public the costs of delivering power to large loads. 
 
 
 
41 Transmission Pricing Policy Statement at 55037, n.34.  
42 Id; see also Pacific Gas and Electric Co., 178 FERC ¶ 61,068 at P 80 (2022) (summarizing that an 
Initial Decision concluded that Commission policy allows “entities to account for costs on a 
disaggregated basis, such as separate pricing for separate facilities”). 
43 Northwestern Corp., 147 FERC ¶ 61,171 at P 53 (2014). 
44 Id. 

--- PAGE 14 ---
14 
 
4: Clarify that the Prohibition Against ‘and’ Pricing Was Never Intended to 
Apply to Large-Load Customers and Find that Any Rate Charged to a Large-
Load Customer that Is Less than the NITS Rate and the Costs of Network 
Upgrades is Unjust and Unreasonable 
The Policy Statement’s prohibition against ‘and’ pricing was part of the 
Commission’s strategy, quickly supplanted by Open Access requirements, to 
improve transmission access for new wholesale market entrants. By preventing 
utilities from overcharging for transmission service, the prohibition against ‘and’ 
pricing, like other policies at the time, was “a useful prophylactic to deter and 
prevent anticompetitive abuse.”45 When issued, the Policy Statement had no 
bearing on how utilities could charge retail consumers. 
Charging retail customers for both the network and the new facilities needed 
to reliably deliver power to them does not introduce any competitive distortion in 
wholesale markets. Large-load customers are not competing with a utility in any 
way, and utilities have no incentive to “artificially restrict the supply of 
transmission” to large-load customers.46 To the contrary, they are lucrative retail 
customers who need both a utility’s transmission network and incremental 
expansion to reliably receive power.  
The Commission could recognize that directly assigning network upgrade 
costs to a large-load customer and charging that customer the NITS rate would 
impose “separate charges for separate services.”47 Unlike the cogenerator in the 
Penelec proceeding, a large-load customer is not at risk of being charged “twice for 
 
45 Tenneco Gas v. FERC, 969 F.2d 1187, 1196 (D.C. Cir. 1992) (upholding Commission-imposed 
standards of conduct on interstate pipeline operators that attempted to eliminate special preferences 
pipelines might offer their marketing affiliates).  
46 Pennsylvania Electric Co., 58 FERC ¶ 61,278, at p. 61,874 (1992). 
47 Order No. 2003 at P 700. 

--- PAGE 15 ---
15 
 
the same transmission capacity.”48 Instead, the large-load customer is paying for 
reliable network access and ongoing service.  
The Commission’s preference not to assign network-upgrade costs to 
transmission customers (except for interconnecting generators) is based on an 
idealized view of transmission expansion that the Commission itself shattered in 
Order No. 2003. “Entire-grid” pricing does not reflect Open Access requirements 
that the Commission imposed after it issued the pricing policy, including generator 
interconnection processes and local and regional planning processes. As the 
Commission now understands, utilities expand transmission in a “piecemeal” 
fashion in response to needs identified through separate jurisdictional processes.49 
Directly assigning network-upgrade costs and charging a large-load customer a 
NITS rate would reflect actual transmission development practice.  
After the Commission modifies its transmission pricing policy to exempt 
large-load customers from the prohibition against ‘and’ pricing, the Commission 
could find that any transmission rate charging a large-load customer less than the 
cost of network upgrades and the NITS rate is unjust and unreasonable. As 
demonstrated in Part I, a customer paying only the NITS rate shifts the cost of 
network upgrades to other ratepayers, perhaps permanently if the large-load 
customer ceases to operate after its state-jurisdictional contract concludes. A 
customer paying only for network upgrades avoids contributing to the embedded 
costs of the system. Either result is inconsistent with cost-causation principles and 
burdens ratepayers with increased costs or risk. 
The Commission has already found rates unjust and unreasonable when they 
charged a large-load customer only for network upgrades during an initial contract 
 
48 Pennsylvania Electric Co., 60 FERC ¶ 61,034, at p. 61,122 (1992). 
49 Order No. 1920, 187 FERC ¶ 61,068 at PP 85, 100, 104, 109, 128 (2024).  

--- PAGE 16 ---
16 
 
term.50 The Commission should extend that reasoning and clarify that just and 
reasonable rates for large-load customers must recover both the customer-specific 
interconnection costs and the customer’s share of the embedded system. 
CONCLUSION 
 
WIRES’ March 30 filing illustrates that ratepayers face higher transmission 
costs and long-term risks from a large-load customer. The Commission should look 
beyond the narrow pricing options offered by WIRES. To protect ratepayers, the 
Commission should consider finding that its pricing policy was never intended to 
prevent utilities from charging a large-load customer for its full costs of service. 
 
/s/ Ari Peskoe 
 
 
Ari Peskoe 
Harvard Electricity Law Initiative 
6 Everett St., Suite 4133 
Cambridge, MA 02138 
617.495.4425 
apeskoe@law.harvard.edu 
April 15, 2026 
 
50 See Duke Energy Carolinas, 193 FERC ¶ 61,237 at PP 18-20 (2025). 
 
