FERC notice of extension of time — PJM — Docket EL25-49-002 — accession 20260814-3005 — Notice of Extension of Time granting PJM and the Indicated PJM Transmission Owners 90 days, to November 16, 2026 — Issued 2026-08-14
Extracted locally with textutil from the document downloaded from its eLibrary accession. Verbatim; source text layer preserved.


UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION

PJM Interconnection, L.L.C.
Allegheny Electric Cooperative, Inc.
American Transmission Systems, Incorporated
Atlantic City Electric Company
Baltimore Gas and Electric Company
Delmarva Power & Light Company
Duke Energy Ohio, Inc.
Duke Energy Kentucky, Inc.
East Kentucky Power Cooperative, Inc.
Essential Power Rock Springs, LLC
Hudson Transmission Partners, LLC
Jersey Central Power & Light Company
Mid-Atlantic Interstate Transmission, LLC
Neptune Regional Transmission System, LLC
Old Dominion Electric Cooperative
PECO Energy Company
PPL Electric Utilities Corporation
Potomac Electric Power Company
Public Service Electric and Gas Company
Rockland Electric Company
Trans-Allegheny Interstate Line Company
Transource West Virginia, LLC
UGI Utilities, Inc.
Monongahela Power Company
The Potomac Edison Company
Commonwealth Edison Company
Commonwealth Edison Company of Indiana, Inc.
The Dayton Power and Light Company
AEP Appalachian Transmission Company, Inc.
AEP Indiana Michigan Transmission Company, Inc. AEP Kentucky Transmission Company, Inc.
AEP Ohio Transmission Company, Inc.
AEP West Virginia Transmission Company, Inc. Appalachian Power Company
Indiana Michigan Power Company
Kentucky Power Company
Kingsport Power Company
Ohio Power Company
Wheeling Power Company
Duquesne Light Company
Virginia Electric and Power Company
Linden VFT, LLC
City of Cleveland, Department of Public Utilities, Division of Cleveland Public Power
City of Hamilton, OH
Southern Maryland Electric Cooperative, Inc.
Ohio Valley Electric Corporation
AMP Transmission, LLC
Silver Run Electric, LLC
NextEra Energy Transmission MidAtlantic Indiana, Inc.
Wabash Valley Power Association, Inc.
Keystone Appalachian Transmission Company

Large Loads Co-Located at Generating Facilities

Constellation Energy Generation, LLC

v.

PJM Interconnection, L.L.C.

PJM Interconnection, L.L.C.
Docket Nos.
EL25-49-002
EL25-49-000

AD24-11-001

EL25-20-001
(consolidated)

ER26-1479-000

NOTICE OF EXTENSION OF TIME

(August 14, 2026)

On July 28, 2026, PJM filed a motion for a 90-day extension of time to comply with certain directives in the Commission’s June 18, 2026 order in this proceeding, which implicate directives in the Commission’s order on large loads.  On July 28, 2026, the Indicated PJM Transmission Owners (Indicated TOs) filed a motion for a 90-day extension of time to comply with directives to the PJM transmission owners in the Co-Located Load Order.
PJM argues good cause exists for a 90-day extension of time of the compliance requirements specified in the motion to allow PJM to develop the remaining aspects of its compliance filing to comply with the Co-Located Load Order in conjunction with a Federal Power Act section 205 filing being developed in response to the Large Load Show Cause Order.  PJM represents that, if its requested relief is granted, it will still make a compliance filing on August 17, 2026 that addresses certain defined terms in PJM’s Open Access Transmission Tariff (Tariff), Part I, certain terms for Network Integration Transmission Service (NITS) pursuant to Tariff, Part III, additional details regarding the Necessary Study process, and the provision of Interim NITS.
Indicated TOs argue that good cause exists to grant their motion because the issues that PJM and Indicated TOs must address on compliance significantly overlap with the issues PJM and Indicated TOs are addressing in response to the Large Load Show Cause Order.  Indicated TOs represent that they are working with PJM to determine if it would be necessary or efficient to submit certain complementary compliance changes on August 17, 2026, given that PJM will submit a partial compliance filing on that date.
On August 3, 2026, PJM Industrial Customer Coalition filed an answer supporting PJM’s motion.  Also on August 3, 2026, Constellation Energy Generation, LLC filed an answer supporting PJM’s motion but with the clarification that PJM remains obligated to file, on August 17, 2026, a complete set of provisions to facilitate Interim NITS.  On August 10, 2026, PJM filed a motion for leave to answer and answer.  PJM reiterates that the Commission should grant its extension request and, in response to Constellation, states that it intends to address all the terms and conditions concerning Interim NITS in its August 17, 2026 compliance filing.  No comments were filed on Indicated TOs’ motion.
Upon consideration, notice is hereby given that an extension of 90 days is granted.  The deadline for PJM to comply with certain directives of the Co-Located Load Order, and the deadline for the PJM transmission owners to comply with the directives of the Co-Located Load Order, is extended to and including November 16, 2026.

Debbie-Anne A. Reese,
  Secretary.
