--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System 
) 
) 
) 
) 
 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
LIMITED COMMENTS OF FUELCELL ENERGY, INC.  
IN RESPONSE TO  
ADVANCE NOTICE OF PROPOSED RULEMAKING 
Pursuant to the October 27, 2025 Notice Inviting Comments issued by the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission (“FERC” or the “Commission”), and the November 7, 2025 Notice 
Granting Extension of Time, FuelCell Energy, Inc. (“FuelCell Energy”) provides limited 
comments on the proposed advance notice of proposed rulemaking (“Proposed ANOPR”) that was 
sent on October 23, 2025 from the Secretary of the United States Department of Energy (“DOE”) 
to the Commission and released for public comment in the above-captioned docket.1 FuelCell 
Energy generally supports the principles set forth in the Proposed ANOPR, but urges the 
Commission to consider the unique circumstances presented by hybrid facilities consisting of 
generation resources co-located with, and intended to support, large loads in any proposed 
rulemaking. Specifically, FuelCell Energy respectfully requests that the Commission consider: 
 Adopting a separate interconnection standard for hybrid facilities that reflects 
each facility’s actual operational characteristics and impact on the transmission 
grid, instead of applying the thresholds established for generation or load 
facilities; 
 
1 Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Advance Notice of 
Proposed Rulemaking, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 27, 2025) (“Proposed ANOPR”). 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
-2-
 
 Developing a framework that ensures that interconnection studies fully reflect 
each hybrid facility’s operational scope as opposed to a facility’s net injections 
or withdrawals; and  
 Clarifying that load interconnection customers may exercise an option to build 
in circumstances where they are not the Transmission Owner or Transmission 
Provider.  
I. 
COMMUNICATIONS 
Communications in this proceeding can be directed to the following individuals: 
Alexandrea L. Isaac 
Assistant General Counsel, Global 
Strategic Initiatives 
FuelCell Energy, Inc. 
3 Great Pasture Road 
Danbury, CT 06810 
aisaac@fce.com  
 
II. 
BACKGROUND 
A. 
FuelCell Energy, Inc. 
FuelCell Energy is an American clean technology and manufacturing company 
providing large-scale, always-on, power and emissions management solutions. The company 
was founded in the United States in 1969 by two scientists devoted to pursuing technological 
innovations that address a wide variety of energy priorities through patent-protected U.S. 
innovation and compound combinations that produce and use energy in ways that are smarter 
and cleaner. Today, FuelCell Energy is the only company in the world with projects over 10 
megawatts (“MW”) operating for at least 10 years, with over 22 years of proven baseload 
power generation, holding 542 global patents covering our fuel cell technology, 687 modules 
deployed, and 17 million megawatt-hours generated. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
-3-
 
B. 
United States Department of Energy Proposed ANOPR 
On October 23, 2025, DOE Secretary Chris Wright issued a letter and Proposed ANOPR 
directing the Commission to (i) consider 14 principles set forth therein and (ii) initiate rulemaking 
procedures proposing reforms to ensure the orderly and uniform interconnection of large loads to 
the transmission system, including hybrid facilities that will share a point of interconnection 
(“POI”) with new or existing generating facilities. Secretary Wright requested that the Commission 
initiate a rulemaking proceeding and issue a final rule by April 30, 2026.  
III. 
COMMENTS 
FuelCell Energy appreciates the attention to and engagement by DOE and the Commission 
on the issue of large load interconnections to the transmission system. FuelCell Energy agrees with 
the premise articulated in the Proposed ANOPR that the Commission should exercise certain 
limited jurisdiction over these types of interconnections to the transmission system, particularly in 
light of the unprecedented growth of large loads, the emerging prevalence of hybrid facilities, and 
the need for uniform standards to ensure open and non-discriminatory access to the transmission 
system. However, FuelCell Energy would respectfully caution the Commission to ensure that 
appropriate guardrails are maintained on its exercise of jurisdiction to avoid infringing on the 
jurisdiction of the states. FuelCell Energy provides specific, limited comments on several of the 
principles for reform set forth in the Proposed ANOPR to highlight special considerations that 
should apply to any rulemaking concerning the interconnection of hybrid facilities.  
 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
-4-
 
A. Principle Two: “[C]onsistent with the Commission’s pro forma LGIP and 
LGIA, the reforms should only apply to new loads greater than 20 MW and, 
for hybrid facilities, where the load is greater than 20 MW.”2  
 
The Commission should adopt a distinct interconnection standard for hybrid facilities to 
ensure that such configurations are evaluated accurately and consistently, rather than being subject 
to thresholds designed solely for generation facilities or for conventional load. Even if the 
Commission elects to focus its rulemaking for load interconnections on loads greater than 20 MW,3 
FuelCell Energy submits that a separate standard is necessary for hybrid facilities that combine 
significant generation and load components. This distinction is critical because the generation 
component of a hybrid facility may exceed 20 MW and serve an associated load of comparable or 
greater magnitude, while the net output of the facility could appear to fall below 20 MW due to 
system limitations.  
In addition to establishing clear standards for hybrid facility configurations, the 
Commission should also address how project phasing will be managed as both generation and load 
increase in tandem with transmission system upgrades. If a 20 MW threshold is adopted, the 
Commission must clearly define how that threshold will be measured. For example, if measured 
at the POI, the framework must account for facilities where generation and load effectively offset 
one another. A facility with a net 10 MW output could, in practice, consist of a 700 MW generator 
paired with a 690 MW load. Such cases demonstrate the need for a distinct process that enables 
Transmission Owners and Transmission Providers to properly assess the full system impacts of 
hybrid facilities. Ultimately, a tailored interconnection standard for hybrid facilities would yield a 
 
2 Proposed ANOPR at P 19. 
3 FCE notes that the Large Generator Interconnection Procedures (LGIP) and Large Generator 
Interconnection Agreement (LGIA) already apply to facilities greater than 20 MW. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
-5-
 
more accurate and equitable assessment of these facilities’ operational characteristics and their 
effects on the transmission grid. Any size threshold and assessment framework established by the 
Commission should seek to ensure that the unique characteristics of hybrid facility configurations 
are appropriately captured and evaluated within any new interconnection standards. 
B. Principle Five: “[H]ybrid facilities should be studied based on the amount of 
injection and/or withdrawal rights requested.”4   
 
The Commission’s interconnection framework should prioritize system reliability by 
ensuring that studies of hybrid facilities reflect their full operational scope, rather than only their 
net injections or withdrawals. While it may be more expedient to study a hybrid facility based on 
the net amount of injection and/or withdrawal rights requested, FuelCell Energy encourages the 
Commission to recognize that this approach could obscure the actual operational impacts of such 
facilities. Accordingly, the Commission should ensure that the Transmission Owner or 
Transmission Provider study and account for the full amount of load and MWs of generation that 
make up a hybrid facility. In the hypothetical of the Proposed ANOPR, “a hybrid facility consisting 
of a 500 MW load and a 600 MW generating facility may seek no withdrawal rights and 100 MW 
of injection rights.”5 While this may incentivize co-location, in the long run it may actually 
minimize flexibility and create challenges for the hybrid facility if the Transmission Owner or 
Transmission Provider is not fully aware of the amount of generation or load that is connected to 
its system. Although a generation resource may initially plan to fully support a large load as a 
hybrid resource, it may become more economically feasible in the future for that resource to sell 
directly into the wholesale market. At that point, the generation resource would have to undergo 
 
4 Proposed ANOPR at P 22.  
5 Id. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
-6-
 
the generation interconnection study process from step one, which could be cost prohibitive and 
result in delays and inefficiencies.  
Further, during emergencies or outages of the generator or load, it is critical that the 
Transmission Owner or Transmission Provider be aware of, and have studied, the full potential 
load that would draw from the transmission system or the full potential generation MW that would 
inject into the system. Therefore, if the Commission decides to allow hybrid facilities to be studied 
at the net amount, it should give this as an option rather than a mandatory requirement. 
C. Principle Nine: “[T]o the extent the interconnection customer is not the 
transmission owner, the interconnection customer shall be afforded the same 
(or equivalent) option to build as currently provided to generator 
interconnection customers.”6 
 
 
FuelCell Energy agrees that, in situations where the load interconnection customer is not 
the Transmission Owner or Transmission Provider, the customer should be afforded the same or 
equivalent option to build as is currently available to generator interconnection customers. This 
parity is essential to ensuring fairness and efficiency in the interconnection process. Providing load 
interconnection customers with comparable rights promotes competition and helps prevent undue 
discrimination among interconnection customers with similar technical and financial capabilities. 
However, it is equally important that this option be explicitly extended to hybrid facilities. 
Given the growing prevalence of hybrid projects that integrate both generation and load 
components, these facilities should have the same right to exercise an option to build as traditional 
generation-only projects. Without such clarity, hybrid developers could face unnecessary 
uncertainty or delays, which would in turn discourage investment in these increasingly vital 
resources. 
 
6 Proposed ANOPR at P 29. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
-7-
 
Extending equivalent treatment to hybrid facilities also acknowledges their unique 
configuration and operational flexibility. Because hybrid facilities can provide both generation and 
load benefits to the grid, allowing them to exercise an option to build ensures that they are not 
disadvantaged in the interconnection process and can move forward on timelines comparable to 
other resource types. Ultimately, adopting this parity-based approach would support continued 
innovation and development in this evolving segment of the energy sector. 
IV. 
CONCLUSION 
 
As noted above, FuelCell Energy generally supports the Commission’s efforts to 
standardize the interconnection of large loads to the transmission system and encourages the 
Commission to consider FuelCell Energy’s comments on the three principles described above in 
the context of ensuring parity for hybrid facilities. For the foregoing reasons, and for good cause 
shown, FuelCell Energy respectfully requests that the Commission consider these comments in its 
evaluation of the Proposed ANOPR and in its future rulemaking.  
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated:  November 21, 2025 
/s/ Alexandrea L. Isaac 
Alexandrea L. Isaac 
Assistant General Counsel, Global Strategic Initiatives 
FuelCell Energy, Inc. 
3 Great Pasture Road 
Danbury, CT 06810 
aisaac@fce.com  
 
 
 
 
