UNITED STATES OF AMERICA BEFORE THE FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION

Ensuring the Timely and Orderly Interconnection of Large Loads

Docket No. RM26-4-000

COMMENTS OF GRIDSTOR LLC ON ADVANCE NOTICE OF PROPOSED RULEMAKING
In accordance with the October 27, 2025 and November 7, 2025 notices of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (the “Commission” or “FERC”), GridStor submits these initial comments on the advanced notice of proposed rulemaking (“ANOPR”) on large load interconnection.  GridStor appreciates the Administration’s leadership in initiating this important and timely solution-oriented discussion of large-load interconnection, recognizing the urgency of aligning policy with rapidly evolving system needs. 
GridStor submits these comments to assist the Commission as it moves forward with a rulemaking on these issues, emphasizing the need to distinguish the treatment of Energy Storage Resource (“ESR”) charging in the development of a Final Rule or other action that affects the interconnection of large loads. Doing so will ensure uninterrupted progress of ESRs in their existing interconnection processes, supporting resource adequacy needs of load serving entities and the flexible capacity needs of large loads.
	•	ABOUT GRIDSTOR
GridStor is a developer and independent power producer that deploys large-scale standalone battery energy storage facilities connected to the transmission system. With facilities operating in CAISO and ERCOT and additional facilities in later-stage development or under construction in both RTO/ISO and non-market regions, GridStor seeks to interconnect battery energy storage systems in regions with rapidly growing energy demand, providing cost-effective, near-term solutions to load serving entities and directly to large load customers.
	•	COMMENTS

	•	Energy Storage Resources Support Speed to Power
Energy Storage Resources (ESRs) are critical to helping get large loads online faster and reliably. Recent examples include: xAI’s installation of 168 Tesla Megapack battery energy storage units at its Colossus supercomputer in Memphis, Tennessee; Lancium’s Stargate AI data center in Abilene planning to utilize a 1,000 MW battery storage system alongside gas and other resources; Crusoe’s Nevada AI facility relying on a battery energy storage system from Redwood Materials; and Aligned Data Centers plan to work with Portland General Electric to install a new 31 MW battery alongside a forthcoming data center Oregon to enable interconnection years earlier than would otherwise be required.
Because data centers have very large power demands, the sudden swings in their power consumption that occur during model training runs can destabilize the power system. States like Texas and regional markets like the Southwest Power Pool are requiring data centers to meet voltage and frequency ride-through requirements. Battery storage is uniquely suited to solving this problem for data centers, providing real and reactive power services at hundreds of MW size on millisecond timescales.
Data centers compete with other demands on the power system, such as residential needs and other business customers. During emergency conditions, grid operators in Texas and other states are increasingly requiring that data centers be willing to be curtailed before residences and other loads. Batteries enable flexible demand management for data centers to ensure business continuity while complying with such requirements.
Similarly, data centers often present larger demands than can be managed by the available power transmission infrastructure. Yet, transmission upgrades are on a multiple years timescale and can force costs onto other nearby power customers. To speed up time to power and manage costs, states and regional market operators are asking data centers to contract for their own local power capacity. Battery storage is helping transmission providers enable faster transmission interconnection for data centers in this way.
As data center loads are added to utilities’ power systems, grid operators need new dispatchable power capacity to ensure system-wide reliability. Grid operators value battery energy storage systems’ dispatchable capacity and are procuring it at multiple-GW levels in states as diverse as Arizona, Georgia, Indiana, and Michigan, among others. Utilities’ integrated resource plans today include expectations of 39 GW of new ESR capacity online 2026-2030.
	•	ESR Charging Must be Considered Distinct from Large Loads
ESRs are unlike conventional supply, in that they make withdrawals from the power system in addition to injections. Charging is integral to the ESR function, which can only serve as supply by virtue of its ability to withdraw energy from the power system. Order 841 rightly determined such withdrawals to be sales for resale of wholesale power, underscoring the Commission’s directive to RTOs/ISOs to allow ESRs to participate in the electricity markets as both supply and demand.
In subsequent action to this ANOPR, the Commission must carefully distinguish ESR charging from large customer loads. Typical ESRs put into service today are of large load sizes, regularly exceeding 100 MW. In transmission system operations, ESR charging may look similar to a large customer load, but key differences distinguish ESR charging from large customer loads: specifically in market operations, ESR charging a time-shifting of supply, and a key reason that load serving entities have procured ESRs for resource adequacy. ESR operations are inherently premised on responding to power system conditions, and ESR charging is controllable and dispatchable with a precision that surpasses other resources—a key reason ESRs are employed for fast frequency response, voltage ride-through, and other essential reliability services on the bulk power system.
To the extent that the Commission seeks to put new requirements on large loads, it is imperative that ESRs be considered distinctly and separately from large loads. While some transmission owners and RTOs/ISOs study ESR charging during the generator interconnection process, others study ESR charging separately via transmission service requests. The Commission should aim to ensure new rules do not inadvertently complicate ESR deployment or institute discriminatory practices against ESRs.
For example, it would be inappropriate and onerously duplicative to apply large loads queuing requirements as discussed in the ANOPR to apply to ESRs. Today, ESRs already participate in generator interconnection queuing processes with required deposits and readiness requirements, and ESRs execute interconnection agreements in a well-understood manner. Similarly, the ANOPR’s proposal to expedite interconnection for large loads that are curtailable and dispatchable could be extended to the studies of ESR charging where RTOs/ISOs or Transmission Owners study ESR charging as a load, benefiting faster system integration in regions where ESR charging is studied as a load.
As these foregoing examples indicate, the Commission will best serve the interests of reliability and enabling large load service through thoughtful consideration of how subsequent proposals do or do not apply to ESRs.
	•	Coordinated Studies of Paired ESRs and Large Loads Will Accelerate Interconnections (ANOPR Proposal #3)
The ANOPR proposes that “load and hybrid facilities should be studied together with generating facilities.” Siting a large load near or at the same point of interconnection as a new generating facility could reduce the network upgrades needed to interconnect only the load or only the generating facility. We believe the Commission can make important progress in this domain, building on recent developments in the Southwest Power Pool (SPP).
In particular, we ask that any Commission consideration of such coordinated study include the load side of paired facilities like ESRs, not only the generation side. The present approach to studying loads independently creates a competitive dynamic between any paired ESR and large loads, forcing them to vie for transmission capacity rather than provide desired mutual benefit. This dynamic hinders both the interconnection and deployment of large loads as well as the dispatchable capacity needed to ensure that large loads do not become a threat to resource adequacy.  
Between the need for large loads to be flexible during tight conditions and meet ride-through requirements, ESRs provide a key option for enabling large load interconnections. ESR owners that plan to serve large loads expect to coordinate their asset functions, i.e., discharging from the ESR when large load withdrawals peak and charging the ESR when large load withdrawals decline to lower levels. Yet, current study processes would evaluate the service to a paired large load and ESR independently of each other, effectively seeing their loads as uncoordinated, delaying their interconnection and increasing their cost. 
The Commission should enable studies of large loads and paired ESRs as coordinated loads, i.e., with integrated control that act as a single resource. Much like in a co-located behind-the-meter configuration, ESR charging can be planned for when a paired large load is reduced, and ESR discharging can be planned for when a paired large load is increased. Establishing coordinated interconnection studies in this manner ensures that they are studied consistent with the intent of the large load and ESR owners that make such a contractual arrangement.
	•	Expediting Interconnection of Curtailable and Dispatchable Load, Including ESRs, Merit Priority (ANOPR Proposal #7)
The ANOPR proposes that “the interconnection study of large loads that agree to be curtailable and hybrid facilities that agree to be curtailable and dispatchable should be expedited.” This is not only a critically important foundation for faster interconnection of large loads, but also of ESRs. Presently, in regions that study ESR charging outside of the generator interconnection process, ESRs that plan to charge from the wider network are required to request transmission service. ESRs are not only fundamentally flexible and curtailable resources, but also they are premised on responding to power system needs—firm service is generally not a requirement or expectation of ESR owners. To the extent that the Commission seeks to develop rules to expedite transmission service studies of large loads that are flexible and curtailable, we respectfully request that such rules also enable speedy and timely transmission service studies of ESR charging. Precedent exists in RTO/ISO tariffs for load interconnection processes that need no longer than 60-90 days to execute fully, and similar timeframes could be applied to ESR charging studies.
It is also worth exploring whether RTOs/ISOs might offer different forms of transmission service to support such flexible and curtailable loads. For example, some large loads and ESRs would benefit from a non-firm transmission service that is driven entirely by locational marginal pricing and managed by the security constrained economic dispatch of the market. Other large loads and ESRs would benefit from a “conditional firm” transmission service, where pre-defined conditions (e.g., EEA, conservative operations, etc) require curtailment but where transmission service is otherwise expected—an improvement from as-available service that has little predictability.
	•	Simultaneous Study of ESR Charging and Discharging Will Support Accelerated Resources to Support Large Loads
ESRs are the single greatest volume of dispatchable capacity available to grid operators in the near-term. Standalone ESRs today comprise nearly 900 GW of interconnection requests, roughly 45% of the volume by capacity of all current active generator interconnection requests. While we expect that a diversity of resources will support large load interconnection, in the near-term the Commission can rapidly support faster large load interconnection by accelerating the interconnection rate of ESRs.
To that end, the Commission should move reforms to fill the gap left between Order 841 and Order 2023. In Order 841, the Commission declined to require the study of ESR charging during the generator interconnection process. In Order 2023, the Commission issued directives guiding how ESR charging should be studied during the generator interconnection process—despite having declined to require such study in Order 841. The Commission’s intent in Order 2023—to study ESR charging in a coordinated manner with the power system—is valid and consistent with the principles of the ANOPR.
Therefore, we recommend that the Commission consider whether study of ESR charging should be more optimally conducted during the generator interconnection process and prior to a generator interconnection agreement, instead of in a separate load study after a generator interconnection agreement. For example, under the current interconnection process in SPP and MISO markets, developers must execute interconnection agreements without knowing how ESR charging energy will be treated or what costs and timelines they will face in securing transmission service. Instead of fully studying ESR charging after interconnection agreement execution, the Commission could direct RTOs/ISOs to allow the option to study ESRs in both their injection (discharging) and withdrawal (charging) states during the generator interconnection processes, analyzing the network deliverability to ESR charging and identifying necessary upgrades for conditional firm ESR charging energy at the same time as identifying upgrades needed for ESR injections, either in the single integrated process or in two simultaneous processes. Such upgrades would be allocated following the established cost-allocation principles applied to other interconnection upgrades. PJM and CAISO already study ESR charging and discharging in an integrated processes and could offer valuable insights to the Commission as it considers adopting this approach, including with respect to how those systems manage constraints during system operations.
	•	CONCLUSION
GridStor appreciates the opportunity to provide these comments and respectfully requests that the Commission consider the foregoing issues as it develops its record and considers rules regarding the interconnection of large loads.
Respectfully submitted,
/s/ Jason Burwen				 Jason Burwen Vice President, Policy & Strategy GridStor LLC 7 SE Stark, Suite 859 Portland OR 97214 jason.burwen@gridstor.com
Dated: November 21, 2025

