--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate 
)  
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Transmission System 
 
 
 
 
) 
 
 
 
 
COMMENTS OF THE ELECTRICITY CONSUMERS RESOURCE COUNCIL  
 
The Electricity Consumers Resource Council (“ELCON”) respectfully submits 
these Comments in response to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (the 
“Commission” or “FERC”) October 27, 2025 Notice Inviting Comments1 and the 
November 7, 2025 Notice Granting Extension of Time2 to the Department of Energy’s 
(“DOE”) proposed Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”)3 sent to the 
Commission on October 23, 2025 asserting the Commission’s jurisdiction over large 
load interconnection and detailing 14 principles the Commission and industry should 
adopt in managing large load interconnections.   
ELCON is the national association representing large industrial consumers of 
electricity. ELCON member companies create a wide range of products from virtually 
every segment of the industrial community—we own and operate hundreds of major 
facilities and are significant consumers of electricity in the footprints of all organized 
 
1 Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Notice Inviting Comments, Docket No. 
RM26-4-000 (Oct. 27, 2025). 
2 Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Notice Granting Extension of Time, 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Nov. 7, 2025). 
3 U.S. Department of Energy, Ensuring Timely and Orderly Interconnection of Large Loads, Advanced Notice 
of Proposed Rulemaking, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 23, 2025). 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
2 
 
markets and other regions throughout the United States. Reliable electricity supply at 
just and reasonable rates is essential to our members’ operations. As large industrials 
and manufacturers expand domestic operations, ELCON generally supports these 
efforts to ensure efficient and timely interconnection of emerging large loads to facilitate 
economic growth that solidifies the Nation’s status as a leader in innovation. However, 
the Commission and the DOE should recognize that industrials and manufacturers 
have worked with their utilities and regulators for decades to ensure equitable access to 
generation supply and grid services and nothing in this proposal should impose 
unintended consequences on load interconnection arrangements that work for those 
customers. 
ELCON appreciates DOE’s leadership in exploring additional opportunities and 
efficiencies in meeting the challenges with powering this historic demand. This 
exponential growth in electrification, manufacturing, computing, and artificial 
intelligence has been well documented as have the challenges associated with providing 
adequate electric service necessary for this transformation. U.S. Manufacturers, alone, 
are projected to increase electricity demand by 36 gigawatts (“GW”) in the next five 
years.4 However, the timeline for generation and infrastructure to deliver power to 
these facilities is misaligned. It can take twice as much time to plan and build the 
powering infrastructure than it does to construct a manufacturing facility. The 
 
4 Bruce Tsuchida, Long Lam, Peter Fox-Penner, “Electricity Demand Growth and Forecasting in a Time of 
Change,” The Brattle Group (May 2024); https://www.brattle.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/Two-
Pager__Electricity-Demand-Growth-and-Forecasting-in-a-Time-of-Change__May-2024.pdf.  

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
3 
 
Commission has already begun its work in assessing how to power this demand while 
also protecting customers from the enormous supply and infrastructure costs needed to 
interconnect these large loads. While the Commission continues to grapple with these 
complex issues, we appreciate DOE’s timely request for expedient action. As reflected 
in the ANOPR’s principles, flexibility around co-location configurations and operations 
will be necessary in order to service new large loads most efficiently and cost-effectively 
while also protecting consumers from unreasonable costs.  
A. 
The Commission Should Be Mindful of Jurisdictional Boundaries and 
Ensure It Has the Resources Necessary to Cover Expanded Activities  
ELCON appreciates the DOE’s efforts to reinforce the legal authority and 
jurisdictional boundaries under which the Commission can operate to better allocate the 
responsibilities for meeting the opportunities and challenges for connecting new large 
customers to the energy they need to power their expanding operations. While ELCON 
does not intend to dive into the legal justification for the Commission’s authority under 
the Federal Power Act (“FPA”), we support the full use of the Commission’s 
jurisdiction to ensure reliable power at just and reasonable rates. To that extent, ELCON 
supports the first principle that Commission jurisdiction over large load interconnection 
be consistent with the existing seven-factor test5 which takes into consideration a 
facility’s location, voltage, ownership, and operational function. 
Through extensive engagement with the states, the Commission has made recent 
 
5 ANOPR at P 18. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
4 
 
improvements in the coordination and active participation of state regulators in 
planning for the future of the grid.6 The Commission must continue its engagement 
with states to ensure clear delineation of the roles and responsibilities in meeting new 
energy demand. As the Commission is now directed to assert its jurisdiction over 
customer interconnections normally overseen at the state level, states must be given 
ample opportunity for review and input as interconnection decisions will have some 
impact on retail rates. Coordination among all interested parties is essential as we 
navigate an extremely complex logistical challenge of meeting accelerated and 
expansive customer demand with infrastructure and regulatory constructs designed in 
a different era. Progress in technological advancements, innovation, and economic 
expansion should not be hindered by protracted disagreements over the regulatory 
process of providing electric service to those customers leading that progress. We 
encourage the Commission and the states to coordinate on the implementation of a 
comprehensive and flexible approach to interconnecting an array of large consumer 
configurations that ultimately shield other customers from the costs over the expected 
life of any installed infrastructure.  
Separately, the Commission must incorporate any lessons learned in improving 
the generator interconnection process through Order No. 2003 and apply those same 
principles here. The Commission should ensure that it, or whichever entity it designates 
 
6 See e.g., Building for the Future Through Electric Regional Transmission Planning and Cost Allocation, Order 
No. 1920-B, 191 FERC ¶ 61,026 (2025). 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
5 
 
to study and oversee large customer interconnection, has the expertise and modeling 
capabilities of those regional entities responsible for generator interconnection or that 
currently manage large customer interconnection.  
Designing principles around large load interconnection also presents an 
opportunity to better understand, model, and prepare load forecasts. Coordinating the 
generator interconnection process with the large load interconnection process would, in 
itself, improve load forecasting as well as siting decisions, as recognized in the 
ANOPR.7 Given the urgency of meeting these challenges and responding to the DOE’s 
directive, ELCON recommends that the Commission expand upon the principles 
articulated in the ANOPR rather than developing pro forma procedures and agreements.  
Similarly, in response to principle two, ELCON argues that establishing a 
brightline MW threshold to determine eligibility of certain large customers fails to 
capture the unique characteristics of these new large loads. Rather than instituting an 
arbitrary MW threshold, the Commission should understand what load interconnection 
protocols have already been established in certain regions and tailor principles to 
address the bottlenecks that are specific to new large loads and their electricity needs. 
Many ELCON members have engaged and continue to engage with their states and 
utilities to modernize large load interconnection processes and that work should be 
allowed to continue. To the extent the Commission establishes principles, procedures, 
or rules, responsible entities should be provided with an opportunity to demonstrate 
 
7 ANOPR at P 20. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
6 
 
that its current rules and procedures meet or exceed any Commission guidelines. 
B. 
The Commission Should Consider Implementing the Principles in the 
ANOPR to the Extent Not Already in Place and Provide for Flexibility in 
Hybrid Facility Configurations and Arrangements 
ELCON has previously called for flexibility in hybrid configurations (or co-
locating manufacturing facilities with generation facilities) to maximize the speed and 
value provided by behind-the-meter generation.8 That same flexibility should be 
reflected in the principles guiding large load interconnection. Varying configurations of 
large loads, sometimes combined with behind-the-meter generation, must be 
considered in interconnection studies to allow for the most efficient solutions to serving 
large loads. In that vein, ELCON urges the Commission to take serious consideration of 
the 14 principles in the ANOPR and, if necessary, apply additional lessons learned and 
best practices in a future rulemaking. With the aggressive timeline set forth by the DOE, 
general guidelines to meet rapidly expanding demand could provide immediate 
efficiencies and inform a more formal and standardized process for the future. 
While ELCON agrees with principle four that the Commission should require 
implementation of readiness requirements, deposits, and penalties to large load 
interconnection requests similar to the generator interconnection process, these 
readiness requirements may already exist in many regions and the Commission should 
not take any action that would render these established and agreed upon requirements 
 
8 Motion to Intervene and Comments of the Electricity Consumers Resource Council to PJM 
Interconnection, L.L.C.’s Answer to the Section 206 Show Cause Order, Docket No. EL25-49-000, pp. 5-6 
(Apr. 23, 2025). 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
7 
 
unworkable. However, ELCON recognizes that the same speculative project dynamic is 
present in load interconnection as it is in generator interconnection. Requirements that 
are specifically targeted to remove speculative projects that will never be built (or 
projects that ‘shop’ multiple connection points) will effectively reduce the number of 
studies to be performed and provide a more accurate load forecast. One of the 
fundamental concerns with meeting the challenge of rapid load growth is determining 
how much growth is coming, when, and where. These forecasts are fundamental to 
planning for resource adequacy and transmission upgrades and expansion. Inaccurate 
forecasts could lead to under procurement and under build thus jeopardizing reliability 
or have the opposite effect of overestimating the amount of load to be served and thus 
leaving other customers stranded with the costs of unnecessary infrastructure. The 
Commission should consider requiring large loads’ disclosure of alternative 
interconnection locations so that it can estimate the total expected load more accurately. 
If necessary, this disclosure could be made under confidentiality agreements. 
ELCON appreciates the flexibility provided by principles five through seven9 to 
study load interconnection requests according to their operational needs and allow for 
expedited study for those customers agreeing to be curtailable and/or dispatchable. 
However, the Commission should implement safeguards that clearly define 
“curtailable” and “dispatchable” including details of how much, when, and how in 
order to enforce those commitments. Recognizing various configurations and service 
 
9 ANOPR at PP 22-24. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
8 
 
types helps expedite and streamline the process rather than attempting to force 
customers into rigid and overly cumbersome models that do not reflect their actual 
energy demand. ELCON continues to have concerns with expedited study processes 
that favor certain resources or facilities. We caution the Commission to be aware that 
developers with massive amounts of capital can push other projects, that struggle to 
meet steep readiness obligations, further down the interconnection queue. 
Consistent with the “cost causation” principle, ELCON agrees with principle 
eight that load be responsible for any necessary network upgrades necessary to connect 
their facilities to the grid.10 As large industrial facilities, ELCON is acutely aware that 
vast energy consumption and infrastructure needs should not adversely impact the 
costs borne by other customer classes. We continue to work with this Commission, our 
states, and our utilities to ensure that larger users are responsible for the infrastructure 
costs needed to supply their demand. We ask that the Commission provide flexibility in 
the financial and crediting mechanisms to pay for those upgrade costs as well as 
provide the option to build those upgrades as set out in principle nine.11 The amount of 
capital necessary to build generation to meet large load demand can at times exhaust 
utility budgets. Large customers already investing capital to build their operational 
facilities can alleviate financial pressure on utilities by building their necessary energy 
 
10 Id. at P 25. 
11 Id. at P 26. 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
9 
 
infrastructure upgrades as well. 
Furthermore, the Commission should expand upon Principle 12 to actively 
encourage large loads to become system solutions. Curtailable and dispatchable large 
loads provide a demonstrable system benefit akin to essential ancillary services (such as 
operating and contingency reserves). The final rule must establish clear mechanisms to 
compensate these customers for the reliability value they provide, creating a critical 
financial incentive to offer flexible service that ultimately defers costly transmission and 
generation build-out for the benefit of all ratepayers. 
With regard to principle 14,12 ELCON supports DOE and the Commission’s 
position that utilities serving large loads must meet all applicable NERC reliability 
standards and tariff provisions.  With respect to whether there should be new 
registration categories, NERC is currently engaging with its Large Load Task Force to 
determine whether any gaps exist in the reliability requirements to mitigate adverse 
system impacts of particular operating characteristics of emerging large loads. ELCON is 
actively engaged in this task force to assist NERC with tailoring any future registration 
requirements or mandatory reliability standards to target those facilities and 
operational characteristics that can have a direct impact on the reliable operation of the 
grid. At the April 17, 2025 FERC Open Meeting, NERC’s Mark Lauby provided an 
overview of this work13 and we encourage the Commission to continue its support of 
 
12 Id. at P 31. 
13 Mark Lauby, NERC Activities and Plans to Address Reliability Impacts from Large Load Integration 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
10 
 
NERC’s efforts. ELCON maintains that the electric system has reliably served industrial 
load for decades and it remains unnecessary to require owners/operators of traditional 
large industrial loads to be NERC registered entities and subjected to mandatory 
reliability standards. The load-serving entities responsible for providing service to those 
industrial loads have consistently ensured compliance with existing reliability 
compliance measures and will and should continue to do so. ELCON respectfully urges 
the Commission to recognize that traditional industrial owners or operators of large 
loads, irrespective of whether they own or operate certain Bulk Electric System 
elements, are not load-serving utility companies and therefore are not equipped in the 
same manner to implement NERC standards and associated compliance programs.    
With respect to new registration requirements, if necessary, ELCON does not 
oppose limited registration for data centers and other computational loads as described 
by NERC’s Large Load Task Force in Whitepaper #114 that carry minimal compliance 
burdens that are commensurate with specifically identified reliability risks posed by the 
nature of these emerging loads. To the extent that FERC ultimately approves a new 
proposed reliability standard or a modification to an existing reliability standard, 
including new registration categories, ELCON respectfully urges FERC to ensure that 
these changes do not have the unintended consequence of making new registrants 
 
(Apr. 17, 2025), https://www.youtube.com/live/XCb2qpHG294?t=3434s  
14 NERC, “Characteristics and Risks of Emerging Large Loads,” pp. 3-7 (July 2025), 
https://www.nerc.com/comm/RSTC_Reliability_Guidelines/Whitepaper%20Characteristics%20and%2
0Risks%20of%20Emerging%20Large%20Loads.pdf.  

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
11 
 
“public utilities” under the broad definition of that term in Section 201(e) of the FPA, 16 
U.S.C. § 824(e). As the Commission is aware, it has exclusive jurisdiction over facilities 
used for the transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce.15  The term “public 
utility,” as defined in FPA section 201(e), means “any person who owns or operates 
facilities subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission.”16 Said differently, any person or 
entity that owns or operates facilities subject to FERC’s jurisdiction is a public utility.  
Requiring scores of companies to comply with all FERC requirements for public 
utilities17 would likely lead to a flood of requests to FERC for exemptions, exceptions or 
blanket authorizations excusing them from some of those FERC requirements18. These 
new layers of regulation and attendant compliance obligations would serve no public 
purpose, particularly given that the new registrants would not be providing FERC 
jurisdictional services at regulated rates. 
CONCLUSION 
ELCON commends the DOE and the Commission for recognizing the urgent 
national imperative to resolve the bottlenecks that impede the interconnection of large 
loads to the interstate transmission system. This proceeding is essential to ensuring 
 
15 16 U.S.C. § 824(b). 
16 Id. at § 824(e). 
17 See, e.g., FPA §§ 203, 204, 205 and 305, as well as 18 C.F.R. Part 141 and 18 C.F.R. Part 101 and §§ 41.10, 
41.11 and 41.12, all of which could be implicated by making an industrial energy user’s facility(ies) part of 
the bulk electric system. 
18 We believe that some of the FERC obligations are not waivable by FERC, so even if a company were to 
invest the time and money to petition FERC, it would be unlikely to avoid burdensome new compliance 
obligations. 

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
12 
 
reliable power at just and reasonable rates, which is the core mandate of the Federal 
Power Act and a necessary foundation for U.S. economic growth. 
The final rule must reinforce clear jurisdictional boundaries between federal and 
state authorities and encourage coordinated operation of the load and generator 
interconnection queues with transmission planning, as one integrated system problem. 
This unified approach is necessary to align infrastructure development with verifiable 
demand, minimize cost misallocation, and strengthen grid reliability and resilience. The 
Commission must firmly adhere to the cost causation principle balanced with adopting 
flexibility principles that expedite interconnection for clearly-defined curtailable and 
dispatchable loads providing valuable system benefits while recognizing that existing 
arrangements for large load interconnection may already exists in some regions; and (3) 
ELCON urges the Commission to finalize a rule that is both efficient and durable, 
leveraging market signals and technological flexibility to manage this historic demand 
surge while fulfilling its statutory duty to protect consumers. 
 
Respectfully submitted,  
 
/s/  Karen Onaran  
 
 
Karen Onaran 
President & CEO 
Electricity Consumers Resource Council 
700 12th Street NW, Suite 700 
Washington, DC 20005 
KOnaran@elcon.org  
 
 
Dated: November 21, 2025 
