--- PAGE 1 ---
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BEFORE THE
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION
Interconnection of Large Loads to the
Interstate Transmission System
)
)
)
Docket No. RM26-4-000
SUPPLEMENTAL COMMENTS OF
THE ENTERGY OPERATING COMPANIES
Entergy Services, LLC (“Entergy Services”), on behalf of the Entergy Operating
Companies,1 hereby submits these brief Supplemental Comments as the Commission considers
the Department of Energy’s advance notice of proposed rulemaking regarding the
interconnection of large loads.  Entergy Services is submitting these Supplemental Comments to
provide new information that has arisen since it submitted Reply Comments on December 5,
2025, namely, Entergy Corporation’s recent announcement that approximately 2.3 million
customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, and Mississippi will receive approximately $5 billion in total
savings because of data center customer agreements in those states.  Entergy Services will also
discuss laws and guidance in Entergy Operating Company regions that are designed to attract
and interconnect large loads in these regions, including actions taken since the time Entergy
Services submitted its Reply Comments.
As Entergy Services explained in its Initial and Reply Comments, the existing retail
regulatory frameworks in the Entergy Operating Companies’ service territories include efficient
rules for attracting and interconnecting large loads, and which provide for significant input from
1
The Entergy Operating Companies are Entergy Arkansas, LLC (“Entergy Arkansas”),
Entergy Louisiana, LLC (“Entergy Louisiana”), Entergy Mississippi, LLC (“Entergy
Mississippi”), Entergy New Orleans, LLC, and Entergy Texas, Inc.

--- PAGE 2 ---
2
retail regulators.2   This framework includes a number of recent statutes and actions taken by
retail regulators:

Most recently, on February 25, 2026, the Louisiana Public Service Commission
(“LPSC”) adopted non-binding guidelines for the interconnection of large loads
that are intended to ensure that the interests of all customers are protected and
balanced.  The guidelines are a list of criteria the LPSC will apply to determine
whether the resources needed to serve a new large load addition are in the public
interest.  They thus provide a roadmap for a utility to consider in structuring a
transaction with a large load customer.

In 2025, the Arkansas Legislature passed Act 373, known as the Generating
Arkansas Jobs Act.  Act 373 is designed to help Entergy Arkansas and other
utilities attract large commercial customers.  The statute allows Entergy Arkansas
to build the infrastructure needed to support new large load growth, while keeping
power affordable and reliable.  This allows Entergy Arkansas to attract new large
customers that will pay their fair share and put downward pressure on rates.

In January 2024, the Mississippi Legislature passed SB 2001 during the Second
Extraordinary Session.  That statute provides tax incentives and infrastructure
support for large-scale economic development projects.
Under this framework, starting in 2024 the Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, and
Entergy Mississippi regions saw the arrival of data center projects by five major technology
companies:

AWS announced two campuses in Madison County, Mississippi, in January 2024.

AWS announced a third campus in Warren County, Mississippi, in November
2025.

Meta announced a campus in Rayville, Louisiana, in December 2024.

Avaio Digital announced a campus in Rankin County, Mississippi, in August
2025.

Avaio Digital announced a campus in Little Rock, Arkansas, in January 2026.

Google announced a campus in West Memphis, Arkansas, in October 2025.
2
E.g., Entergy Initial Comments at 8; Entergy Reply Comments at 6.

--- PAGE 3 ---
3

Hut 8 announced a campus in West Feliciana Parish, Louisiana, in December
2025.
Entergy expects continued success in attracting and interconnecting large loads on a going
forward basis.
The successful attraction of these loads will provide significant benefits to retail
customers.  On March 4, 2026, Entergy Corporation announced that approximately $5 billion in
total savings will accrue to 2.3 million customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, and Mississippi
because of data center customer agreements in those states.  This includes more than $2 billion in
savings for Mississippi customers, $1.7 billion in savings for Arkansas customers, and $800
million savings for Louisiana customers.  Customer savings are projected over the next 20 years,
and come after the regulatory approval or acknowledgement of the public service commissions
in those states.
In light of the successes in Entergy Operating Company regions, evidence does not
support Commission action in those regions.  If the Commission nonetheless does take any
action, it should recognize that the Entergy Operating Companies’ respective public service
commissions provided the collaboration, oversight, and direction needed to achieve the successes
discussed above.  It should take care to avoid any rule that could interfere with successful
existing state processes.

--- PAGE 4 ---
4
Karis Parnham
Entergy Services, LLC
919 Congress Ave
Suite 701
Austin, TX  78701
512-487-3986
kparnha@entergy.com
Respectfully submitted,
/s/  Andrea Weinstein
Andrea Weinstein
Glen Bernstein
Michael Chase
Jeffrey Phillips
Entergy Services, LLC
101 Constitution Avenue, NW
Suite 200 East
Washington, DC  20001
202-530-7342
aweinst@entergy.com
March 16, 2026
