--- PAGE 1 ---
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to   
 
) 
the Interstate Transmission System 
 
) 
      Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS OUT-OF-TIME AND 
INITIAL COMMENTS OF 
THE KANSAS CORPORATION COMMISSION 
 
 
Pursuant to Rule 214 of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (“FERC”)  
Rules of Practice and Procedure, the Kansas Corporation Commission (“KCC”) 
respectfully submits this Motion for Leave to Submit Comments Out-of-Time and Initial 
Comments in response to the October 27, 2025 Notice Inviting Comments regarding the 
Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) proposed by the Secretary of 
Energy on October 23, 2025 pursuant to Section 403 of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act.1   
The KCC’s interests in this proceeding stem from its obligations to ensure Kansas 
customers receive reliable utility service in exchange for just and reasonable rates.  The 
KCC’s principal means of fulfilling its obligations is through direct regulation of all rates, 
terms and conditions of service by which public utilities that provide bundled retail electric 
service to end-use customers in Kansas.2  Though the KCC does not regulate wholesale 
rates, it also fulfills its obligation to Kansas customers by participating in proceedings and 
 
1  
42 U.S.C. § 7173.  
2  
In pertinent part, Kansas law defines a “public utility” any entity that is engaged in “the production, 
transmission, delivery or furnishing of heat, light, water or power.”  K.S.A. 66-104(a).  An “electric public 
utility” is any entity that meets the definition of public utility and also “generates or sells electricity.”  K.S.A. 
66-101(a). 

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
processes wherein the justness and reasonableness of rates, terms, and conditions for 
wholesale transmission service are at issue.  Specifically, the KCC is an active participant 
at the Southwest Power Pool, Inc. (“SPP”), including its Regional State Committee.  The 
KCC also participates in FERC proceedings to help develop evidentiary records necessary 
to ensure the justness and reasonableness of the rates, terms, and conditions of wholesale 
service that ultimately impact end-user customers in Kansas.  The ANOPR proposes action 
that has the potential to alter the KCC’s ability to fulfill its obligations to Kansas customers 
and protect traditional load from incremental costs imposed by new large load customers 
that desire to interconnect to the FERC-controlled grid.  Worse yet, in addition to a major 
intrusion on state jurisdiction, the ANOPR proposes a process that does not address the 
heart of the issues.  Consequently, the KCC appreciates the opportunity to submit these 
Initial Comments and explain its views that the ANOPR:  
• 
does not identify or analyze the full scope of issues relevant to the question of 
jurisdiction;  
• 
misses the mark by assuming that an unprecedented expansion of federal 
jurisdiction is an appropriate response to the projected increases in load driven by 
large load customers plans to interconnect to the grid when the appropriate response 
involves adherence to the well-established divide between state and federal 
jurisdiction and a commitment to cooperative federalism whereby: 
o states can take appropriate actions to protect traditional load from the 
potential for improper cost shifts relating to investments in generation and 
local distribution facilities needed to serve large load customers; and 
o regional stakeholders are permitted to work together to craft and present to 
FERC proposed revisions to Transmission Providers’ tariffs that will 
protect traditional load from bearing excessive costs related to network 
upgrades and other new transmission infrastructure necessary to facilitate 
interconnection of large loads to the FERC-regulated grid;  
 
 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
• 
requires clarifications to avoid unnecessary uncertainty, protect against 
unnecessary intrusion on state jurisdiction, and avoid undermining or prejudicing 
cooperative efforts to protect traditional load from the costs of the increased 
investment in generating, local distribution, and transmission infrastructure that are 
incurred to interconnect large load to the FERC-regulated grid; and 
• 
proposes an unreasonable timeline for final agency action given the unprecedented 
nature of the proposed expansion of federal jurisdiction and the time needed to 
allow states and regional stakeholders to develop sensible policy solutions that 
advance the public interest generally. 
I. 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO SUBMIT COMMENTS OUT-OF-TIME 
The KCC submitted a timely notice of intervention in this proceeding on November 
21, 2025.  However, due to the press of other business, the KCC was not able to finalize 
its Initial Comments by the November 21, 2025 deadline.  The KCC submits that FERC 
should accept these Initial Comments out-of-time for good cause.  Specifically, the KCC 
offers a unique perspective that will assist FERC as it considers what action to take, if any, 
in response to the ANOPR.  The KCC supports development of well-supported policies 
that advance the interests of reliability and affordability, particularly given substantial 
changes to the nation’s generation mix.3   It also has a strong track record of working with 
diverse groups of stakeholders to address issues the impacts of the changing generation 
fleet.4  In addition, the KCC is a retail regulator in a state that does not offer retail choice.   
Further, the KCC is submitting these Initial Comments at an early stage of the 
proceeding—i.e., just two business days after the deadline for timely comments.  As such, 
 
3  
See generally Docket No. RM21-17-000, KCC’s Initial Comments (August 17, 2021); see also 
Docket No. RM21-14, KCC’s Notice of Intervention and Comments (July 23, 2021). 
4  
See, e.g., Docket No. ER255-2296-000, KCC Notice of Intervention and Comments in Support at 
5-7 (June 12, 2025) (explaining the basis for the KCC’s support for SPP’s Expedited Resource Adequacy 
Study filing and its participation in the stakeholder process that SPP administered in developing the ERAS 
proposal); see also Docket No. ER24-1317-000, KCC’s Motion to Intervene Out-of-Time and Comments in 
Support at 11-12 (explaining the basis for the KCC’s support for SPP’s revisions to its tariff to implement an 
Effective Load Carrying Capability accreditation methodology for variable resources, and a performance-
based accreditation methodology) (April 9, 2024). 

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
no party will be prejudiced by the KCC’s late submission.  Based on the foregoing, the 
KCC submits that FERC should accept these late-filed Initial Comments. 
II. 
INITIAL COMMENTS 
According to the ANOPR, the “unprecedented current and expected growth of large 
loads seeking to interconnect to the transmission system” has made it “necessary to 
standardize interconnection procedures and agreements for such loads, including those 
seeking to share a point of interconnection with new or existing generation facilities (hybrid 
facilities).” 5   The ANOPR’s principal request is that FERC take responsibility for 
addressing this need by concluding, as a matter of law, that interconnections of large loads 
to the FERC-regulated grid are subject to federal law.6  If FERC adopts the legal conclusion  
proposed by the ANOPR, the ANOPR does not identify any specific reforms that FERC 
should implement to administer jurisdiction over large loads.  Rather, the ANOPR 
identifies 14 “Principles for Reform” that it contends “should inform” FERC’s rulemaking 
procedures.7 
The KCC agrees the ANOPR has identified an important issue that warrants 
attention.  But the KCC takes issue with the conclusion that an unprecedented expansion 
of federal jurisdiction is necessary to address these important issues.  In particular, the KCC 
submits the legal analysis presented in the ANOPR does not fully identify or address the 
full scope of the jurisdictional issues that should be considered, nor does it give appropriate 
consideration to the ability of states and FERC to work cooperatively within the confines 
of their respective jurisdictional spheres to develop a sensible policy solution that meets 
 
5  
ANOPR at ¶ 12. 
6  
Id. at ¶ 13. 
7  
Id. at ¶ 17.  The 14 Principles for Reform are articulated in paragraphs 18 to 31 of the ANOPR. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
the goals of (i) protecting traditional load from costs incurred to facilitate the 
interconnection of large load customers, and (ii) gives large load customers the certainty 
they need to make economic decisions and develop projects.  The KCC addresses these 
issues in more detail in Section II.A below.  In Section II.B, the KCC identifies areas of 
the ANOPR uncertainty that it identified in analyzing the ANOPR.  If left unaddressed, 
these issues threaten to undermine efforts to use cooperative federalism to develop sensible 
policy solutions.  Finally, in Section II.C below, the KCC articulates its concerns with the 
ANOPR’s request for final agency action by April 30, 2026.8   
A. 
To the Extent FERC Considers the ANOPR, It Must Fully Analyze the 
Jurisdictional Questions at Issue. 
As this stage of the proceeding, the KCC identifies two discrete points in response 
to the jurisdictional issues raised by the ANOPR.   
1. 
FERC Should Clarify that the ANOPR’s Scope Does Not 
Propose Federal Regulation Over Retail Sales or a Right for 
Large Load Customers to Bypass Franchised Retail Service 
Providers.   
To the extent FERC is inclined to consider the ANOPR, it should clarify the scope 
and intent to ensure all relevant issues are identified and subject to stakeholder comments.  
The KCC understands that the ANOPR’s focus is on the terms and conditions of 
transmission interconnection service.  In other words, the KCC understands that the 
ANOPR is not asking FERC to assert jurisdiction over large load interconnections for retail 
sales.  In support of its interpretation, the KCC notes that the ANOPR’s first sentence 
explains that the ANOPR is asking FERC to “initial rulemaking procedures and consider 
 
8  
Given the early stage of the proceeding, the KCC has elected to focus on these threshold issues, 
concerns, and requests for clarification.  The KCC’s silence on any particular aspect of the ANOPR should 
not be construed as agreement or disagreement.   

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
this Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANOPR) presenting potential reforms to 
ensure the timely and orderly interconnection of large loads to the transmission system.”9  
And in the section of the ANOPR titles “Need for Reform,” the ANOPR states that “it has 
become necessary to standardize interconnection procedures and agreements for such loads, 
including those seeking to share a point of interconnection with new or existing facilities 
(hybrid facilities).” 10  Further, the third legal justification offered to support FERC’s 
jurisdiction over large load interconnections contends that the “the proposal does not 
impinge on States’ authority over retail electricity sales by asserting jurisdiction over the 
interconnection of large loads to the transmission system.”11  However, the KCC submits 
that clarification is warranted because aspects of the proposal suggest a broader scope that 
creates concerns about jurisdiction that the ANOPR does not identify or address. 
The KCC’s concern is based on its view that ANOPR either focuses on states that 
have enacted retail choice or fails to adequately acknowledge and consider states that have 
not enacted retail choice.  For example, the ninth principle for reform states that “to the 
extent the interconnection customer is not the transmission owner, the interconnection 
customer shall be afforded the same (or equivalent) option to build as currently provided 
to generator interconnection customers.” 12   This principle suggests that large load 
customers have a right to directly interconnect to the FERC-regulated grid that trumps state 
laws regarding retail choice and certificated service territories.  The implication could be 
that the ANOPR is proposing reforms that would allow large loads to bypass retail 
 
9  
ANOPR at ¶ 1 (footnote omitted). 
10  
Id. at ¶ 12. 
11  
Id. at ¶ 15. 
12  
Id. at ¶ 26. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
providers in states that do not have retail choice, allowing those loads to take power directly 
from a wholesale market or an independent generator.  The ANOPR’s discussion of hybrid 
facilities could also be read as supporting the notion that third-party generators could co-
locate with large loads to serve large load customers in the certificated service territories 
of public utilities that have been granted exclusive franchises to serve end-use customers.  
Likewise, the seventh principle discusses curtailment agreements with large load 
customers, 13  which could be read as suggesting that large load customers can take 
wholesale transmission service directly from wholesale markets, also bypassing public 
utilities in Kansas that have an exclusive right to serve end-use customers in their certificate 
service territories. Since non-restructured states regulate their vertically-integrated utilities, 
allowing large loads to bypass such utilities would inherently also imply large loads may 
completely bypass state rate regulation.   
The KCC recognizes that the Federal Power Act’s jurisdictional divide can be 
blurry at times. But FERC has made clear that the Federal Power Act does not extend 
federal authority to retail transmission service provided directly to an ultimate consumer.14  
And the Supreme Court has recognized “that the States retain significant control over local 
matters,” 15  which include “most power production and virtually all distribution and 
 
13  
Id. at ¶ 24. 
14  
See Promoting Wholesale Competition Through Open Access Non-Discriminatory Transmission 
Services by Public Utilities; Recovery of Stranded Costs by Public Utilities and Transmitting Utilities, Order 
No. 888, 61 Fed. Reg. 21540, 21625 (May 10, 1996) (explaining that “Section 212(h) … clearly prohibits” 
FERC from extending jurisdiction over retail transmission service to end-users); FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 
31,036 (1996), order on reh’g, Order No. 888-A, 62 Fed. Reg. 12274 (Mar. 14, 1997), FERC Stats. & Regs. 
¶ 31,048, order on reh’g, Order No. 888-B, 81 FERC ¶ 61,248 (1997), order on reh’g, Order No. 888-C, 82 
FERC ¶ 61,046 (1998), aff’d in relevant part sub nom. Transmission Access Policy Study Group v. FERC, 
225 F.3d 667 (D.C. Cir. 2000), aff’d sub nom. New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1 (2002).   
15  
New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1, 24 (2002); accord 16 U.S.C. § 824. The ANOPR relies on Justice 
Thomas’ dissenting opinion in New York v. FERC to support its conclusion that the FERC has jurisdiction 
over the retail component of bundled sales.  ANOPR at ¶ 5. That dissenting opinion does not reflect the 
current state of the law.  The Supreme Court has had multiple opportunities to consider and adopt Justice 

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 
consumption of electric energy ….”16  Further, the KCC understands that the ANOPR is 
focused only on terms and conditions of transmission interconnection and is not proposing 
any change that would impact the right of retail providers to provide bundled electric 
service to large loads in their certificated service territories.   Consequently, the KCC urges 
FERC to expressly avoid or reject any proposals that would improperly cross the 
jurisdictional divide and assert federal jurisdiction over retail sales.  Further, FERC should 
expressly reject any proposals that allow large load customers to bypass retail utilities in 
non-restructured states in order to purchase power directly from a wholesale market or an 
independent generator.  Stated another way, FERC should ensure that any reforms are 
narrowly tailored to avoid an improper (and unnecessary) expansion of jurisdiction over 
load, the generation and local distribution facilities required to serve retail load, or the 
design of retail rates paid by load.   
In addition to respecting the bounds between state and federal jurisdiction and 
avoiding usurping state authority, FERC should avoid reforms that would allow large loads 
to bypass franchised retail providers because they are unnecessary and would create, rather 
than fill, any regulatory gap.  Specifically, any reforms that exempt only a specific subset 
of retail customers from retail rate regulation would leave states with no recourse to ensure 
all customers in the state, particularly existing customers, are not exposed to inequitable 
cost shifts and only pay just, reasonable, and non-discriminatory rates.  
 
 
 
Thomas’ minority view in the two decades since he issued his dissent.  Yet, it has never endorsed that 
minority view. 
16  
New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. at 24 see also 16 U.S.C. § 824(b)(1) (FERC “shall not have 
jurisdiction … over facilities used for the generation of electric energy or over facilities used in local 
distribution ….”); 16 U.S.C. § 824(d) (explaining FERC’s jurisdiction over sales for resale, i.e., sales that 
are not made to an end-user).   

--- PAGE 9 ---
9 
2. 
To the Extent a Regulatory Gap Exists Concerning Regulation 
of Large Load, It Involves Responsibility for the Costs of 
Network and Regional Upgrades Rather Than Procedures that 
Can Be Addressed by the States. 
 
As explained above, the ANOPR argues that “the unprecedented current and 
expected growth of large loads seeking to interconnect to the transmission system” has 
made it “necessary to standardize interconnection procedures and agreements for such 
loads, including those seeking to share a point of interconnection with new or existing 
generation facilities (hybrid facilities).”17  The ANOPR contends that FERC should take 
responsibility for establishing these standards.  The KCC agrees that standardization could 
be beneficial.  However, the ANOPR misses the mark in two regards, both of which center 
on the important interests of cooperative federalism.   
First, the ANOPR does not acknowledge or analyze existing proactive actions taken 
by states to address developments concerning large loads to the extent states have 
jurisdiction to address these issues.  Kansas is an example of a state taking such proactive 
actions.  On November 6, 2025, the KCC approved a unanimous settlement agreement that 
will establish a new Large Load Power Service (“LLPS”) rate plan that is designed to serve 
electric customers that reasonably expect to need a peak load of at least 75 MW.18  To 
provide the type of standardization within the State that the ANOPR cites broadly as the 
basis for FERC action, the LLPS tariff has the following key provisions: 
• 
To provide certainty for retail customers, public utilities providing generation and 
local distribution service to traditional load, and large load customers, the LLPS 
tariff establishes a minimum contract term of 12 years plus an optional transitional 
load ramp period of up to five years, for a total term of 12-17 years.   
 
17  
ANOPR at ¶ 12. 
18  
See generally KCC Docket No. 25-EKME-315-TAR. 

--- PAGE 10 ---
10 
• 
Flexibility provisions that allow (i) LLPS customers to reduce the amount of their 
contract capacity, and (ii) for early termination subject to a fee that is calculated by 
a formula set forth in the tariff. 
• 
A minimum monthly bill that is based on 80% of their contract demand.  
• 
A requirement to post a security deposit that is equal to two years of minimum 
monthly bills. 
• 
The minimum bill calculation includes payment of a reasonable allocation of all 
transmission costs incurred by the retail utility to serve retail customers, including 
network upgrades constructed as a result of interconnection studies or other 
regional transmission expansion plans. 
• 
A requirement to pay all costs associated with extensions of transmission or 
substation construction, including costs identified during FERC-jurisdictional 
delivery point addition (load interconnection) processes.  
By presupposing a need for expanded federal jurisdiction, the ANOPR does not address 
state actions like Kansas’ LLPS Tariff, which adopt meaningful reforms that protect retail 
customers from the costs incurred to expand generating, local distribution, and FERC-
jurisdictional transmission facilities to serve large loads.  As such, its analysis of the need 
for the reforms it proposes is incomplete or flawed.     
Second, the eighth principle states that load and hybrid facilities should be 
responsible for 100% of the network upgrades that they are assigned through the 
interconnection studies.19  While the KCC appreciates the focus on insulating existing 
customers from transmission cost increases, the ANOPR’s proposal misses the mark. As 
described above, states like Kansas are already approving mechanisms to fairly allocate 
transmission upgrades identified during FERC-jurisdictional interconnection study 
processes.  Therefore, the focus on cost allocation within interconnection studies is 
 
19  
ANOPR at ¶ 25.  As discussed in Section II.C below, the KCC understands the reference to “load” 
to mean the “large load customer.” 

--- PAGE 11 ---
11 
misplaced. The larger issue is the cost increases and potential cost shifts associated with 
regional transmission expansion plans, which states do not have authority to fully address. 
In regions like SPP, regional transmission expansion plans are currently being 
formulated to proactively construct large-scale transmission facilities to meet 
unprecedented future load growth that is, in large part, caused by the large loads that are 
the subject of the ANOPR.  The KCC supports proactive, cost-effective transmission 
planning initiatives, especially as opposed to the inefficient and piecemeal process for 
constructing upgrades identified in interconnection studies.  However, the cost allocation 
principles identified in the ANOPR do not address this aspect of the planning process or 
contemplate any mechanism that would allow regional stakeholders to add to the efforts 
states are taking at the local level.   
To facilitate the proactive development of transmission infrastructure that is 
necessary for large loads to interconnect to the grid in a timely manner that does not 
undercut the economics of their projects, stakeholders should focus efforts on cost 
allocation and other consumer protection guardrails associated with regional planning 
efforts instead of a myopic focus on interconnection. Because these regional transmission 
expansion plans are primarily driven by – and benefit – a specific subset of new large load 
customers, the focus should be on how existing retail customers can be protected, or even 
benefit, from load-driven expansion plans.  Again, the states have a role to play with respect 
to investments in generating and local distribution facilities that are needed to facilitate 
interconnection of large loads.  Any federal reforms should be narrowly crafted by regional 
stakeholders to address the wholesale transmission investments that are the federal analog. 

--- PAGE 12 ---
12 
Specifically, unlike the Kansas LLPS discussed above, there is currently no 
mechanism under federal statutes or regulations that require projected loads to commit to 
pay for the regional projects ahead of building those projects.  These circumstances are 
problematic for load in regions like SPP that are pursuing development of portfolios of 
transmission projects that are projected to cost tens of billions of dollars. 20   The 
transmission planning processes that inform these investment plans are influenced by 
projections of increased load.  These planning processes are also distinct processes that do 
not take into account SPP’s interconnection studies.  As noted above, the KCC does not 
take issue with SPP’s proactive transmission planning process.  Rather, the KCC notes the 
harm that traditional loads would be subjected to if the large loads that formed the basis for 
the transmission plans do not materialize, leaving only existing customers to pay for 
generational expansions of the transmission grid.  The provisions of the LLPS are intended 
to address this concern to the maximum extent possible at the retail level, but they cannot 
address costs regional transmission costs if large loads do not materialize and take service 
under the LLPS.  Therefore, cost allocation reforms and other consumer protections at the 
federal level may be required to fully insulate retail customers from potential inequitable 
cost shifts or unjustly high rates.  To be clear, the KCC is not asking FERC to address this 
concern by expanding its jurisdiction to broadly cover load (or even a subset of load that 
meets any definition of “large load” that FERC may establish).  Rather, the KCC submits 
that, under the current jurisdictional divide between FERC and the states, stakeholders at 
 
20  
The KCC’s experience is limited to SPP’s consideration of an investment plan that includes a 765 
kV overlay.  While the specific details in other regions vary, the KCC understands all regions are 
experiencing an increase in transmission investment and an upward trend in wholesale transmission rates.   

--- PAGE 13 ---
13 
the RTO level are best positioned to address this issue by crafting the narrow reforms 
referred to in Section II.A.1 and presenting those reforms to FERC. 
B.  
In Evaluating the ANOPR, FERC Should Clarify Its Understanding of 
Certain Principles for Reform. 
 
The KCC identifies three areas where the ANOPR lacks clarity or is based on 
unsupported assumptions.  If FERC is inclined to act on the ANOPR, it should address 
these areas with specificity to ensure all stakeholders have meaningful notice of the 
proposals under consideration and an opportunity to be meaningfully heard regarding their 
interests on these issues.   
First, the KCC discussed the eighth principle in Section II.A.2, supra.  That 
principle states that “load and hybrid facilities should be responsible for 100% of the 
network upgrades that they are assigned through the interconnection studies.” 21  As 
explained in the foregoing discussion, the KCC understands the reference to “load” to mean 
“large load” customer.  And despite its disagreement with the ANOPR’s proposal for 
FERC to assert jurisdiction over the interconnection of large loads, the KCC agrees with 
the goal of protecting traditional load from the costs of network upgrades that are incurred 
to facilitate interconnection of large loads.  However, clarification is warranted because the 
actual intent of the ANOPR is not clear.   
The ANOPR specifically defines “large load”22 and references that defined term on 
19 occasions throughout the body of the document.  But the eighth principle refers to “load” 
instead of “large load.”  Consequently, the rules of construction would suggest that the 
ANOPR knew how to refer to “large load” when it intended to distinguish large load from 
 
21  
ANOPR at ¶ 25.  
22  
Id. at ¶ 1 fn.1. 

--- PAGE 14 ---
14 
load generally.  As such, the eighth principle could be read as suggesting that large load 
should not be responsible for 100% of network upgrade costs.  In addressing the ANOPR, 
FERC should speak to this issue with specificity to ensure that the scope of the proposals 
being addressed is clear.   
Second, the ANOPR relies on several unsupported statements or inaccurate 
assumptions.  For example, the third principle states that “nothing in the proposed reforms 
governs the siting, expansion, or modification of generation facilities.”23  The KCC agrees 
that states have jurisdiction over siting, expansion, or modification of generation facilities.  
However, the ANOPR does not actually contain any “proposed reforms.”  As such, FERC 
could only conclude that any reforms adopted as part of this rulemaking proceeding will 
not improperly invade state jurisdiction after it adopts those reforms and provides 
analytical support for such a conclusion.  In other words, the “devil is in the details,” and 
the ANOPR provides no details on implementation.  Given the magnitude of the proposed 
expansion of federal jurisdiction, FERC should take care to fully identify and analyze the 
relevant issues and avoid relying on unsupported statements about the ANOPR’s impact 
on state jurisdiction (or lack thereof).  Otherwise, FERC invites challenges and appeals that 
will frustrate all stakeholders’ efforts to achieve a sensible policy that advances the public 
interest generally.    
The third area the KCC brings to FERC’s attention involves the eleventh and 
twelfth principles.  The eleventh principles states that “utilities serving large loads, 
including those at hybrid facilities, should be responsible for transmission service based on 
their withdrawal rights, as that value amount reflects the quantity of capacity and energy 
 
23  
Id. at ¶ 15. 

--- PAGE 15 ---
15 
that is being transmitted across the transmission system to the load.”24  Likewise, the 
twelfth principle states that “utilities serving large loads, including those at hybrid facilities, 
should be responsible for ancillary services based on peak demand, without consideration 
of any co-located generation.”25  The KCC seeks clarifications of these principles that are 
consistent with the statements above about the KCC’s understanding that the ANOPR: (1) 
is not seeking to usurp state authority over retail sales, generating facilities, or local 
distribution facilities, and (2) is not proposing any reforms that are so prescriptive that they 
would mandate shift costs from the large load customers that cause those costs to be 
incurred to traditional load limit flexibility to make appropriate revisions to wholesale 
tariffs to address any needed changes to wholesale cost allocation methodologies.   
C. 
Given the Magnitude of the Jurisdictional Issues and the Lack of Any 
Proposed Reforms, the KCC Urges FERC Not to Try to Adopt Any 
Reforms on the Expedited Schedule Proposed by the ANOPR. 
The KCC agrees with the ANOPR that the interconnection of large loads is a 
pressing issue that warrants considerable attention.26  As explained above, the KCC has 
devoted substantial attention to this issue as demonstrated by its recent approval of the 
LLPS rate plan that is designed to serve electric customers requiring greater than 75 MW 
of peak power consumption.  The LLPS is an important part of the solution, but it does not 
fully protect traditional load from costs incurred by the interconnection of large load.  
Rather, federal reforms may be necessary to enact reforms that protect customers from 
 
24  
Id. at ¶ 28. 
25  
Id. at ¶ 29. 
26  
See, e.g., id. at ¶ 1 (“United States electricity demand is expected to grow at an extraordinary pace, 
due, in large part, to the rapid growth of large loads…[T]he size and speed with which data centers can be 
connected to the grid present unique challenges for demand forecasting and system planning.”) (citation 
omitted). 

--- PAGE 16 ---
16 
improper shifting of wholesale costs.  The KCC submits that an unprecedented expansion 
of federal jurisdiction is not the missing link, and the KCC is concerned that any effort by 
FERC expand its jurisdiction by April 30, 2026 as the ANOPR proposes does not allow 
for the full scope of issues to be identified and addressed.  If FERC is inclined to take action 
on the ANOPR at some point, it should only do so after fully analyzing all jurisdictional 
issues, which entails: (1) ensuring that all relevant issues have been identified; (2) 
providing stakeholders a meaningful opportunity to address all relevant issues; and (3) 
meaningfully considering all arguments raised by stakeholders.  If FERC ultimately 
decides it has jurisdiction over the interconnection of large loads to the FERC-regulated 
grid, it will be taking an unprecedented step and regulating an area it has never regulated 
before.  Such an important issue should not be taken lightly.   
In addition to the concern that enacting major reforms under an expedited process 
will unnecessarily intrude on state jurisdiction, the KCC is concerned that an expedited 
process will result in reforms that have not fully been vetted or scrutinized.  As explained 
above, the “devil is in the details.”  Advancing toward an action date of April 30, 2026 
does not allow sufficient time to develop those details.  It would also be inconsistent with 
past practice wherein FERC adopts reforms as part of a multi-step process whereby it: (1) 
crafts the details and contents of specific reforms that are presented to stakeholders for 
comment and scrutiny; (2) considers stakeholder comments, feedback, and proposals on 
the specific reforms; and either (3) refines the proposals as necessary to incorporate 
stakeholder comments, or provides a rational basis for its disagreement with any 
stakeholder proposals.   

--- PAGE 17 ---
17 
Further, it is likely that any reforms that could be enacted through a rushed process 
to implement an unprecedented expansion of jurisdiction would be inferior to reforms that 
regional stakeholders could develop when given appropriate time.  As explained above, 
regional stakeholders are best positioned to develop reforms that meet the dual objectives 
of respecting jurisdictional boundaries and effectively addressing the underlying issues that 
are at the heart of this inquiry.   
III. 
RESERVATION OF RIGHTS 
 
The KCC appreciates the opportunity to provide these Initial Comments.  Given 
the ANOPR’s industry-wide implications, the questions identified above about the 
ANOPR’s scope and intent, and the early stage of this proceeding, the KCC reserves the 
right to posit and address any additional issues that it or other stakeholders may identify or 
raise over the course of this proceeding. 
IV. 
CONCLUSION  
WHEREFORE, the Kansas Corporation Commission respectfully asks the 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to: 
(1) grant the Motion to Submit Comments Out-of-Time; 
 
(2) consider the foregoing Initial Comments when considering what action, if any, is 
necessary in response to the Secretary of the Department of Energy’s proposed 
Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking; and 
 
(3) grant such other relief as may be necessary and appropriate. 
 
Respectfully submitted,  
 
/s/ Jason T. Gray  
Jason T. Gray  
Duncan & Allen LLP  
1730 Rhode Island Avenue, NW, Suite 700  
Washington, DC 20036  
(202) 842-8197 
jtg@duncanallen.com   

--- PAGE 18 ---
18 
 
Counsel 
to 
the 
Kansas 
Corporation 
Commission  
 
Dated: November 25, 2025 
 
 
 
 
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
 
I hereby certify that I have this day served the foregoing document upon each 
person designated on the official service list compiled by the Secretary in this proceeding. 
 
Dated at this 25th day of November, 2025 
 
 
/s/ Jason T. Gray  
Jason T. Gray  
Duncan & Allen LLP  
1730 Rhode Island Avenue, NW, Suite 700  
Washington, DC 20036  
(202) 842-8197 
jtg@duncanallen.com   
 
