--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate 
Transmission System 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Comments of the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association 
The National Rural Electric Cooperative Association (NRECA) respectfully 
submits the following comments in response to the Commission’s Notice Inviting 
Comments (Oct. 27, 2025) and the Notice Granting Extension of Time (Nov. 7, 2025) 
regarding the Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANOPR) proposed by the 
Secretary of Energy by his letter of October 23, 2025. 
NRECA appreciates the opportunity to comment on the important issues 
addressed by the proposed ANOPR and is eager to work with the Commission to ensure 
efficient, timely, and non-discriminatory large-load interconnections while continuing to 
provide safe, reliable, and affordable electric service to America’s electric consumers. 
These comments are intended to provide the broad perspective of NRECA’s 
member electric cooperatives. Individual cooperatives may file comments reflecting their 
own specific views and experiences. 
I. 
NRECA 
NRECA is the national trade association representing nearly 900 not-for-profit 
electric cooperatives and other rural electric utilities.1 America’s electric cooperatives are 
owned by the people that they serve and comprise a unique sector of the electric industry. 
NRECA’s member cooperatives include 64 generation and transmission (G&T) 
 
1 Except as noted, the facts and figures in this description of NRECA member cooperatives, and their 
sources, are posted on the NRECA public website. See https://www.electric.coop/electric-cooperative-fact-
sheet (last visited Nov. 7, 2025).  

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
2 
cooperatives and 830 distribution cooperatives. Distribution cooperatives are the 
foundation of the electric cooperative network; they were built by their communities and 
deliver electric service and other services to their consumer-members. The G&T 
cooperatives generate or purchase wholesale power on behalf of their distribution-
cooperative members. Distribution and G&T cooperatives share an obligation to serve 
their members by providing safe, reliable, and affordable electric service. 
Electric cooperatives provide power to one in eight Americans and serve as 
engines of economic development for 42 million people across 56% of the nation’s 
landmass. They own and maintain 2.7 million miles, or 42%, of the nation’s electric 
distribution lines and serve large expanses of the United States that are primarily 
residential and typically sparsely populated. Those characteristics make it comparatively 
more expensive for rural electric cooperatives to operate than the rest of the electric 
sector, which tends to serve more compact, industrialized, and densely populated areas.  
Unlike the rest of the electric sector, electric cooperatives sell most of their 
power—52%—to households. One in four households served by electric cooperatives 
have an annual income of less than $35,000, and electric cooperatives serve consumer-
members in 92% of the nation’s more than 300 persistent-poverty counties. Keeping rates 
affordable is especially important for these consumers at the end of the line. 
Locally, cooperatives are focused on powering and empowering their 
communities. Nationally, electric cooperatives are focused on advocating for smart 
energy policy that keeps the lights on. This includes pressing for solutions to meet 
increasing energy demands at a cost local families and businesses can afford. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
3 
Although a few G&T cooperatives are Commission-jurisdictional public utilities 
under the Federal Power Act (FPA),2 the vast majority of electric cooperatives are 
statutorily excluded from most provisions of the Act.3 At the same time, numerous 
electric cooperatives are registered entities subject to the reliability standards developed 
by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) and approved by the 
Commission.4 In addition, the FPA requires the Commission to facilitate transmission 
planning and expansion to meet the needs of “load-serving entities,” which the Act 
defines as (1) a distribution utility, including an electric cooperative, that provides 
electric service to end-users, or (2) an electric utility, including a G&T cooperative, that 
has an obligation to serve a distribution utility.5 
II. 
Summary of Position 
NRECA views the Commission’s expedited attention to the ANOPR as a means 
to foster the policy environment requisite for cooperatives to serve new and growing 
loads in a timely and efficient manner while maintaining affordable, reliable and safe 
electricity for all consumers.  
As our nation increasingly relies on electricity to power the economy, keeping the 
lights on has never been more important—or more challenging. In its most recent Long-
Term Reliability Assessment, NERC found that “most of the North American bulk power 
 
2 16 U.S.C. § 824(e) (2024). 
3 16 U.S.C. § 824(f) (2024). 
4 16 U.S.C. § 824o (2024). 
5 16 U.S.C. § 824q (2024).  

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
4 
system faces resource adequacy challenges over the next ten years as surging demand 
growth continues and thermal generators announce plans for retirement.”6  
Addressing the emergence of large data center loads, the NERC Reliability Issues 
Steering Committee’s 2025 ERO Reliability Risk Priorities Report notes that “these 
facilities, which can demand hundreds of megawatts at a single site and thousands of 
megawatts in a geographically small area, operate continuously, have minimal tolerance 
for power quality issues, and can be interconnected rapidly, often outpacing the 
development of accompanying transmission and generation.”7 The report cautions, 
“Failure to address the integration of large loads from a policy perspective could 
exacerbate the reliability considerations associated with energy sufficiency and resource 
adequacy challenges.”8 
As explained below, cooperatives are leading the way with locally led solutions 
that ensure energy reliability, embrace responsibility, and empower consumers with next-
generation technologies. And with the growth of data centers in rural areas, they are 
balancing the need to meet increasing energy demand while ensuring that they keep the 
lights on at a cost their members can afford. Cooperatives’ ability to meet the demands 
associated with data centers is vital to ensuring America wins the race to be the world’s 
leader in artificial intelligence (AI).  
 
6 NERC, 2024 Long-Term Reliability Assessment, at 6 (corrected July 11, 2025). See 
https://www.nerc.com/globalassets/our-work/assessments/2024-ltra_corrected_july_2025.pdf (last visited 
Nov. 13, 2025). 
7 NERC, 2025 ERO Reliability Risk Priorities Report, at 45 (Board Accepted Aug. 14, 2025). See 
https://www.nerc.com/globalassets/our-work/reports/white-papers/2025_risc_ero_priorities_report.pdf (last 
visited Nov. 13, 2025). 
8 Id. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
5 
Part of cooperatives’ long-term strategy is deploying a mix of power generation 
across all available sources. From state-of-the-art power plants and transmission lines to 
long-duration battery storage and microgrids, to carbon capture systems, to providing 
gigabit rural broadband, electric cooperatives are delivering more reliable services to 
their consumers, making our electric grid more resilient, and paving new pathways to 
prosperity for their communities. 
Meeting America’s energy needs requires cooperatives to plan their investments 
years before new generation and transmission facilities are placed in service. 
Cooperatives must be able to operate and build new, always-available generating 
resources that provide reliable, affordable energy to meet the new demands coming onto 
the system. They must be able to permit new generation and transmission projects in a 
timely and predictable manner and be able to secure the needed materials and equipment 
within reasonable timeframes. In short, the U.S. needs a whole-of-government approach 
to federal regulations, policies and incentives to ensure that cooperatives can meet all 
consumer needs cost-effectively and efficiently.  
In these comments, NRECA addresses selected issues from the ANOPR to 
provide the perspective of electric cooperatives for consideration as the Commission 
decides on further action in this proceeding, beginning with jurisdictional issues 
associated with the interconnection of large loads to the transmission system. In addition, 
the importance of maintaining reliability and affordability cannot be overstated and must 
be required of any large-load interconnection. NRECA reserves the right to augment and 
revisit the comments presented here as this rulemaking proceeding advances. 
 First, any Commission assertion of jurisdiction over large-load interconnections 
must conform to the terms of the jurisdiction granted the Commission by section 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
6 
201 of the FPA9 and thus cannot impinge on the jurisdiction of state and local 
electric regulatory authorities over the rates, terms, and conditions of retail 
electric sales to such large loads. In particular, the FPA prohibits a Commission 
order that is inconsistent with state law governing retail marketing areas or that 
requires the transmission of electric energy directly to an ultimate consumer.  
 Second, any Commission assertion of jurisdiction over large-load 
interconnections must ensure that adequate standards and procedures are in place 
to enable NERC, regional entities, and registered entities to preserve the 
reliability of the bulk power system within the Commission’s jurisdiction under 
section 215 of the FPA.10  
 Third, any assertion of jurisdiction over large-load interconnections should be 
flexible enough to accommodate regional differences, because maximizing 
opportunities and minimizing challenges for such load interconnections will vary 
depending on a number of factors.  
 Fourth, to keep rates affordable to consumers, it is imperative that large loads pay 
their own way when interconnecting directly to the interstate transmission system. 
It stands to reason that the costs resulting from the direct access of large loads to 
the transmission grid should be borne by those who benefit from that access. In 
this context as elsewhere, transmission costs should be allocated reasonably 
commensurate with cost causation. Moreover, other transmission customers 
should not bear stranded transmission costs for upgrades made to accommodate 
the interconnection of a large load that fails to materialize, does not operate as 
anticipated, or ceases operation.  
 Fifth, “hybrid facilities” in which load and generation share a point of 
interconnection present distinct jurisdictional, reliability, operational, and 
financial issues. 
 Sixth, a reasonable transition period for implementing any such reforms will be 
necessary. 
III. 
Load Growth Trends Affecting Cooperatives  
The United States has embarked on a new period of demand growth in the electric 
sector. Cooperatives and other utilities have successfully navigated increasing demand in 
the past, such as booming manufacturing following World War II and the widespread 
expansion of air conditioning loads in the 1980s. Today, the sector is growing due to the 
 
9 16 U.S.C. § 824 (2024). 
10 16 U.S.C. § 824o (2024). 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
7 
converging trends of increased manufacturing activity, electrification of other sectors of 
the economy, and importantly the buildout of data centers. 
The world adds a new data center every three days. Electricity is the key input 
that determines the profitability of these data centers, and the amount of energy AI 
requires is astounding. The rapid addition of domestic manufacturing facilities, including 
microchip and battery production, requires significant energy resources as well. The 
increasing emphasis on and demand for electric vehicles, and the energy necessary to 
charge them, are other examples of factors contributing to the growing need for 
electricity. 
From Georgia to Pennsylvania to Colorado to Texas, it should come as no 
surprise that electric cooperatives are at the heart of data center development: they offer 
access to affordable, reliable power; tracts of land sufficient to build large data centers 
and essential electric, water and fiber network infrastructures at prices far below 
suburban costs; and potentially less red tape to manage to develop projects. 
Depending on a number of factors, cooperatives have varying opinions of large 
loads, especially data centers and whether or not these loads would be beneficial to the 
cooperative utilities’ systems. The benefits of today’s data centers include additional 
electric sales, high load factors, and in some instances grid infrastructure investments that 
may improve reliability and support community electric needs. Data centers also may 
increase local job opportunities and pay substantial business taxes, supporting community 
investments in public services such as schools and amenities.  
At the same time, some cooperatives perceive challenges and uncertainties 
associated with serving large loads such as data centers. Growth for electric cooperatives 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
8 
has traditionally been linear and incremental, tied to changes in GDP, population, and 
DOE efficiency standards, such as those for HVAC, appliances, and lighting – ensuring 
reliability, affordability and security for cooperative members. That dynamic has 
completely changed. Forecasting these additional loads can be challenging because they 
are tied to multiple corporate decision-making criteria and technologies, such as AI, 
which are rapidly changing. 
Today, large load customers want rapid responses while utilities must guard 
against stranding investments. The size, structure, and carbon-free requirements of many 
of these new projects raise concerns about the ability to successfully meet the requests. 
Additionally, the level of investment to meet such requests in rural/suburban areas can 
equate to tens of millions of dollars per project, thereby creating serious challenges when 
combined with the demands of prospects, site selectors and other stakeholders. To meet 
aggressive timetables, utilities are being asked to take unsecured risks, putting native-
load customers at risk of covering costs if the projects do not come to fruition. 
For perspective, many G&T cooperatives serve an annual peak load of roughly 
1,000 to 2,000 MW, with some closer to 500 to 800 MW. Now, cooperatives are being 
approached to serve and interconnect new loads that range from 500 MW to 1,000 MW 
each, with some fielding a number of such requests. The scale and speed of such a 
prospective change for a cooperative cannot be overstated, and pose significant risks that 
must be carefully navigated.  
Electric cooperatives’ long-standing business model, as not-for-profit load-
serving entities, is to invest in resources and infrastructure to meet their service 
obligations. NRECA members have adopted policies that allow them to take on new large 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
9 
loads while limiting risk to end-of-line consumer-members. For example, some G&T 
cooperatives have developed large load rate schedules to address reliability and resource 
adequacy—but also to protect against defaults that would cause the G&T’s distribution 
cooperatives to subsidize large loads. Electric cooperatives’ investments are borne by 
cooperative consumers. The significant risks associated with large loads may ultimately 
be borne by existing, native-load cooperative customers if the large loads do not 
materialize, do not take service in the anticipated volume or peak and off-peak patterns, 
or cease operations. 
IV. 
Need for Reform, Commission Jurisdiction and Authority  
NRECA agrees that there is a dire need for a smart energy policy that makes 
reliability and affordability paramount. Keeping the lights on affordably has never been 
more critical and warrants a long-term strategy of deploying a mix of power generation 
across all available sources. Within this context, NRECA appreciates the 
Administration’s focus as set forth in the Secretary’s letter proposing the ANOPR and 
understands that a policy framework for interconnecting large loads needs to balance the 
strategic and economic importance of large loads (such as data centers) with maintaining 
reliability and resource adequacy. 
Quoting Order No. 2003,11 the ANOPR states that the Commission has 
jurisdiction over large load interconnections to the interstate transmission system 
because, “like generator interconnections, large load interconnections are a ‘critical 
 
11 Standardization of Generator Interconnection Agreements & Procedures, Order No. 2003, 104 FERC 
¶ 61,103 (2003), order on reh’g, Order No. 2003-A, 106 FERC ¶ 61,220, order on reh’g, Order No. 2003-
B, 109 FERC ¶ 61,287 (2004), order on reh’g, Order No. 2003-C, 111 FERC ¶ 61,401 (2005). 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
10 
component of open access transmission service.’”12 In Order No. 2003, the Commission 
exercised its authority under sections 205 and 206 of the FPA13 to remedy undue 
discrimination by requiring public utilities that own, control, or operate Commission-
jurisdictional transmission facilities to amend their open access transmission tariffs 
(OATTs) by adopting standardized Large Generator Interconnection Procedures and a 
Large Generation Interconnection Agreement.14 The ANOPR asserts that similar 
standardized interconnection procedures and agreements for large loads—including 
“hybrid facilities” where large loads share a single point of interconnection with new or 
existing generation facilities—are necessary “to provide open access and non-
discriminatory access to the transmission system.”15  
If the Commission proceeds with further action in this rulemaking, it should 
continue a policy of cooperative federalism and conform its action to the express 
limitations on the Commission’s statutory authority.  
Under section 201(b) of the FPA, the Commission has jurisdiction over “the 
transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce” and “the sale at wholesale of 
electric energy in interstate commerce,” together with “all facilities for such transmission 
or sale of electric energy.”16 But the Commission expressly does not have jurisdiction 
over “any other sale of electric energy”—importantly, any retail sale—or over facilities 
 
12 ANOPR, P 13 (quoting Order No. 2003 at P 7. The ANOPR also asserts that the interconnection of large 
loads to the transmission system is a practice directly affecting Commission-jurisdictional wholesale 
electricity sales (as opposed to Commission-jurisdictional transmission service). See ANOPR at P 14 
(citing FERC v. Elec. Power Supply Ass’n, 577 U.S. 260 (2016)). It is not clear how the ANOPR’s proposal 
depends on that asserted basis for jurisdiction, however. 
13 16 U.S.C. §§ 824d & 824e (2024). 
14 See Order No. 2003 at P 7. 
15 ANOPR at P 12. 
16 16 U.S.C. § 824(b)(1) (2024).  

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
11 
used for generation, in local distribution, only for intrastate transmission, or for the 
transmission of electric energy consumed wholly by the transmitter.17 Thus, federal 
regulation is “to extend only to those matters which are not subject to regulation by the 
states.”18 
The Commission held in Order No. 888 that “section 201 of the FPA, on its face, 
gives the Commission jurisdiction over transmission in interstate commerce (by public 
utilities) without qualification” and in this respect “does not limit our jurisdiction over 
public utilities to wholesale transmission.”19 In New York v. FERC, the Supreme Court 
upheld this interpretation of section 201 and the Commission’s assertion of jurisdiction 
over unbundled retail transmission service in Order No. 888.20 Subsequently, in 
Tennessee Power Company21 and in Order No. 2003, the Commission held that generator 
“interconnection is a critical component of open access transmission services and thus is 
subject to the requirement that utilities offer comparable service under the OATT.”22   
A grant of Commission jurisdiction over generator interconnections as a 
component of interstate transmission service does not support a correlative grant of 
 
17 Id.  
18 16 U.S.C. § 824(a) (2024). 
19 Promoting Wholesale Competition Through Open Access Non-Discriminatory Transmission Services by 
Public Utilities; Recovery of Stranded Costs by Public Utilities and Transmitting Utilities, Order No. 888, 
61 Fed. Reg. 21540, 21625 (emphasis original) (May 10, 1996), FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,036 (1996), 
order on reh’g, Order No. 888-A, 62 Fed. Reg. 12274 (Mar. 14, 1997), FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,048, 
order on reh’g, Order No. 888-B, 81 FERC ¶ 61,248 (1997), order on reh’g, Order No. 888-C, 82 FERC 
¶ 61,046 (1998), aff’d in relevant part sub nom. Transmission Access Policy Study Group v. FERC, 225 
F.3d 667 (D.C. Cir. 2000), aff’d sub nom. New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1 (2002). 
20 535 U.S. 1, 17 (2002) (“There is no language in the statute limiting FERC's transmission jurisdiction to 
the wholesale market, although the statute does limit FERC's sale jurisdiction to that at wholesale.”). 
21 Tenn. Power Co., 90 FERC ¶ 61,238 (2002). 
22 Order No. 2003 at P 9. See id. at P 12 (“Interconnection is a critical component of open access 
transmission service ….”). 

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
12 
jurisdiction over large-load interconnections, however, without recognizing at least three 
limitations on the Commission’s statutory authority. 
First, as noted, section 201(b) of the FPA states that the Commission does not 
have jurisdiction over retail sales. The ANOPR alludes to this limitation by declaring that 
“the proposal does not impinge on States’ authority over retail electricity sales by 
asserting jurisdiction over the interconnection of large loads to the transmission 
system.”23 Thus, a Commission order on the interconnections of large retail loads to the 
transmission system cannot regulate the rates, terms, or conditions for retail sales to such 
large loads—whether or not the retail sale is bundled or unbundled with transmission or 
interconnection service.24 State law determines who provides retail electric service to 
large loads. The Commission cannot, directly or indirectly, limit the rights of state and 
local regulators, including cooperatives, to determine whether to serve such large loads at 
retail or to allow large loads or hybrid facilities to access another retail supplier via the 
transmission grid.25 
Second, section 212(g) of the FPA states: “No order may be issued under this 
chapter [i.e., Part II of the FPA] which is inconsistent with any State law which governs 
 
23 ANOPR at P 15. 
24 See FERC v. EPSA, 577 U.S. at 277. The ANOPR recognizes this limitation and states that “the proposal 
does not impinge on States’ authority over retail electricity sales by asserting jurisdiction over the 
interconnection of large loads to the transmission system.” ANOPR at P 15.  
25 In prior rulemakings involving the intersection of state and federal electric regulatory authority, the 
Commission has used the term “relevant electric retail regulatory authority.”  18 C.F.R. § 35.28(g)(1)(iii) 
(2025) (demand response aggregation participation in organized markets); 18 C.F.R. § 35.28(g)(12)(iv) 
(2025) (distributed energy resource aggregation participation in organized markets). The Commission has 
defined that term as “the entity that establishes the retail electric prices and any retail competition policies 
for customers, such as the city council for a municipal utility, the governing board of a cooperative utility, 
or the state public utility commission.” Wholesale Competition in Regions with Organized Electric 
Markets, Order No. 719, 125 FERC ¶ 61,071, P 158 (2008), order on reh’g, Order No. 719‑A, 128 FERC 
¶ 61,059, order on reh’g, Order No. 719‑B, 129 FERC ¶ 61,252 (2009). 

--- PAGE 13 ---
 
13 
the retail marketing areas of electric utilities.”26 In Order No. 888, the Commission stated 
that “[t]he legislative history of FPA section 212(g) and its predecessor, former section 
211(c)(3), indicates that the provision was focused on not interfering with state laws 
governing retail service territories….”27 The plain language of this provision precludes a 
Commission order that would give large retail loads a federal right to interconnection to 
the interstate transmission system that would conflict with state law governing retail 
marketing areas. Thus, federal interconnection procedures for large loads are not, and 
cannot be, a backdoor route to retail competition. State and local regulators determine the 
terms of retail direct access.  
This is further confirmed by section 212(h) of the FPA,28 which bans retail 
wheeling, including sham retail wheeling transactions.29 In Order No. 888, the 
Commission recognized this additional limit on its remedial authority: “In asserting 
jurisdiction over unbundled retail transmission in interstate commerce by public utilities, 
the Commission is in no way asserting jurisdiction to order retail transmission directly to 
an ultimate consumer. Section 212(h) of the FPA clearly prohibits us from doing so.”30 
 
26 16 U.S.C. § 824k(g) (2024). 
27 Order No. 888, 61 Fed. Reg. at 21625 n.542. See also Cynthia A. Marlette, FERC Open Access 
Transmission Rule and Utility Bypass Cases, 37 Nat. Res. J. 125, 136 (1997) (“The [Energy Policy Act of 
1992] and its legislative history make clear that state law determines retail marketing areas and that neither 
the newly amended [section] 212, nor any other provision of the FPA is to interfere with this state 
decision.”). 
28 16 U.S.C. § 824k(h) (2024). 
29 Section 212(h) provides: “No order issued under this chapter shall be conditioned upon or require the 
transmission of electric energy: (1) directly to an ultimate consumer, or (2) to, or for the benefit of, an 
entity if such electric energy would be sold by such entity directly to an ultimate consumer” (unless this 
“entity” is a load-serving entity as defined in section 212(h)(2)(A) and “was providing retail electric service 
to such ultimate consumer on October 24, 1992, or would utilize transmission or distribution facilities that 
it owns or controls to deliver all such electric energy to such electric consumer”). Id. See Pac. Gas & Elec. 
Co. v. FERC, 113 F.4th 943 (D.C. Cir. 2024). 
30 Order No. 888, 61 Fed. Reg. at 21625.  

--- PAGE 14 ---
 
14 
The Commission clarified in Order No. 2003 that generator interconnection service does 
not confer any delivery rights.31 If it were implemented in a similar fashion, a 
Commission-jurisdictional large-load interconnection service would not confer any 
delivery rights under the OATT, either. In any event, however, the Commission is 
prohibited from using load-interconnection service to provide transmission service to an 
ultimate consumer in violation of section 212(h) of the FPA.   
Accordingly, if the Commission proceeds with further action in this rulemaking, it 
must conform its action to these express limitations on the Commission’s statutory 
authority. 
V. 
Reform Principles 
NRECA provides the following initial comments on the principles proposed by 
the ANOPR to inform further action in this rulemaking. NRECA looks forward to 
working with the Commission and other parties to address these issues as this proceeding 
moves forward. 
A. 
Principle 1 - Interconnection to transmission facilities  
The ANOPR proposes that “the Commission’s jurisdiction should be limited to 
interconnections directly to transmission facilities, consistent with the Commission’s 
seven-factor test.”32 NRECA supports this limitation, which clarifies other, ambiguous 
language in the ANOPR.  
As the ANOPR acknowledges, the Commission has developed a body of law 
applying Order No. 888’s seven-factor test to define the transmission facilities subject to 
 
31 Order No. 2003 at P 22. 
32 ANOPR at P 18.  

--- PAGE 15 ---
 
15 
its jurisdiction under section 201 of the FPA, as opposed to the local distribution facilities 
over which it lacks jurisdiction.33 The ANOPR, however, generally describes its proposal 
as the interconnection of large loads to the “transmission system” without defining that 
term.34 And the ANOPR states that the term “transmission system” is used 
“interchangeably” with the term “bulk power system” as defined in section 215 of the 
FPA.35  
The stated purpose of this first principle is to “avoid even arguably affecting the 
States’ jurisdiction” over the facilities excluded from Commission jurisdiction by section 
201(b) of the FPA, including facilities used in local distribution.36 To achieve that 
purpose, interconnections to the “transmission system” should be defined by reference to 
the seven-factor test for “transmission facilities” under section 201, not by reference to 
the “bulk power system” under section 215.  
B. 
Principle 2 - Minimum large-load size  
The ANOPR states that the Commission’s reforms, like its pro forma LGIP and 
LGIA, “should only apply to new loads greater than 20 MW and, for hybrid facilities,  
where the load is greater than 20 MW.37 
NRECA agrees that a lower-bound size limit on “large loads” is necessary, but it 
opposes uniform, nationwide interconnection rules for all loads greater than 20 MW, 
which many electric cooperatives believe is too low. The Commission should allow 
 
33 See id. at P 18 (citing Cal. Pac. Elec. Co., 133 FERC ¶ 61,108 (2010)). The Commission established the 
seven-factor test in Order No. 888 to analyze the jurisdictional status of facilities used for unbundled retail 
service. See Order No. 888, 61 Fed. Reg. at 21625–27, 21731. 
34 See ANOPR at PP 12, 16. 
35 See id. at P 1 n.2. 
36 Id. at P 18 (emphasis original). 
37 Id. at P 19. 

--- PAGE 16 ---
 
16 
regional flexibility to establish a higher MW threshold, as well as different limits for 
different load characteristics and different transmission system configurations and 
conditions. Large loads are not monolithic: they present different characteristics, 
including size, location, electrical demands, and operational behaviors, especially when 
part of a hybrid facility. Thus, NERC recommends several additional factors that should 
be considered in assessing large loads, including load ramp rates, real-time behavior, 
protection systems, and backup power.38 Accordingly, the Commission should allow 
transmission providers to propose one or more minimum-size thresholds of 20 MW or 
more in their compliance filings and justify their proposal.  
C. 
Principles 5, 6, and 10 – Treatment of hybrid facilities  
The co-location of large loads with generation resources sharing a single point of 
interconnection with the transmission system may present difficult issues concerning 
system planning; reliable operation of the bulk-power system; regional and local-area 
resource adequacy; market structure and operations; and state and federal jurisdiction 
over rates and services. Principles 5, 6, and 10 of the ANOPR address hybrid facilities 
and are grouped here for comment. 
1. 
Principle 5 - Hybrid facility study requirements  
The fifth principle states that “hybrid facilities should be studied based on the 
amount of injection and/or withdrawal rights requested.”39 NRECA opposes this principle 
 
38  NERC, Characteristics and Risks of Emerging Large Loads (July 2025) (Large Loads Task Force White 
Paper), available at https://www.nerc.com/globalassets/who-we-are/standing-committees/rstc/whitepaper-
characteristics-and-risks-of-emerging-large-loads.pdf. 
39 ANOPR at P 22. 

--- PAGE 17 ---
 
17 
as a hard-and-fast study requirement; to the contrary, regional flexibility is appropriate in 
establishing study requirements for hybrid facilities.  
This principle appears to refer to studies of whether hybrid facilities can be 
interconnected consistent with the reliability of the transmission system. The 
interconnection of hybrid facilities presents complex issues depending on the 
characteristics of the generation and the load. And, as discussed above, state jurisdiction 
over the terms and conditions of retail service must be respected. The stated principle 
may be sufficient for some hybrid-facility interconnection studies, but transmission 
providers should have the flexibility to establish criteria requiring full studies of the 
separate loss of the generation or load, and dynamic modelling of generation and load 
operation, where appropriate to ensure system reliability and stability.  
2. 
Principle 6 - Hybrid interconnection system protection 
facilities 
The sixth principle states that “any hybrid interconnection shall be required to 
install the system protection facilities necessary to prevent unauthorized injections or 
withdrawals that exceed the respective rights.”40 NRECA supports this general principle 
with the following clarifications.  
First, system protection facilities themselves may fail. Thus, while such facilities 
are necessary, they are not sufficient to ensure reliability in all system conditions. The 
installation of system protection facilities is not a substitute for full reliability studies, as 
noted above.  
 
40 Id. at P 23. 

--- PAGE 18 ---
 
18 
Second, system protection facilities address unanticipated, extreme system 
conditions; they do not prevent unauthorized injections or withdrawals during ordinary 
system conditions. Thus, hybrid interconnections should be required to install system 
protection and control facilities to prevent unauthorized injections or withdrawals that 
exceed the respective rights (e.g., leaning on the transmission system when co-located 
generation is not adequate to meet the large load’s need). Such control facilities are 
necessary not only for reliability purposes, but also to prevent market disruptions and 
manipulation arising from unauthorized injections or withdrawals, including the 
marketing of excess power unneeded to serve the hybrid load. 
3. 
Principle 10 – Load co-location with an existing generator 
The tenth principle is that “an existing generating facility that seeks to enter a 
partial suspension to serve a new load at the same location must go through a system 
support resource (SSR)/reliability must run (RMR) type study.”41 
Such partial suspensions clearly necessitate a study of the effects on regional and 
local area reliability. Regional flexibility in implementing such requirements will be 
necessary. These types of studies have been used in RTO and ISO regions to address 
issues resulting from generator retirements. In non-RTO/ISO regions, reliability issues 
may need to be addressed with other types of studies or procedures.  
These types of studies and procedures have limited purposes, however, and are 
not sufficient to identify or prevent market power, noncompetitive market structures, and 
anticompetitive market behavior that may arise from co-location of load with an existing 
generation facility. Additional, specific market-power studies will be necessary for these 
 
41 Id. at P 27. 

--- PAGE 19 ---
 
19 
purposes in RTO/ISO regions with organized electric markets. Modifications of 
RTO/ISO market rules may be necessary. The Commission’s standards and procedures 
for granting market-based rate authority to public utilities may need to be revisited and 
revised.  
D. 
Principle 8 – Network upgrade cost allocation  
The ANOPR’s eighth principle is that “load and hybrid facilities should be 
responsible for 100% of the network upgrades that they are assigned through the 
interconnection studies.”42 NRECA supports this principle as essential to keep rates 
affordable to other consumers and to protect them from cost shifting and stranded costs. 
Commission and judicial precedent requires that transmission costs be allocated in 
a manner “at least roughly commensurate with” the benefits derived from the facilities.43 
This requirement is consistent with the established ratemaking principle of cost 
causation: “To the extent that a utility benefits from the costs of a new facilities, it may 
be said to have ‘caused’ a part of those costs to be incurred, as without the expectation of 
its contributions the facilities might not have been built, or might have been delayed.”44  
It stands to reason that the costs resulting from the direct access of large loads to 
the transmission grid should be borne by those who benefit from that access. This cost 
responsibility includes not just interconnection facilities but also the network upgrades 
assigned to the interconnecting large loads through the interconnection studies. The 
primary beneficiaries of the network upgrades identified by large-load interconnection 
 
42 Id. at P 25. 
43 Ill. Com. Comm’n v. FERC, 576 F.3d 470, 477 (7th Cir. 2009). 
44 Id. at 476. See also Ill. Com. Comm’n v. FERC, 756 F.3d 556, 561 (7th Cir. 2014) (remanding 
Commission cost-allocation order because it “assumes—it does not demonstrate—that the benefits” of 
transmission lines are grid-wide) (emphasis original)). 

--- PAGE 20 ---
 
20 
studies will be the interconnecting loads.45 As the ANOPR states, “Any large load that 
seeks to interconnect to the transmission system does so to obtain transmission service 
and the appurtenant benefits of such.”46  
The ANOPR’s proposed cost-allocation principle accords with the Commission’s 
long-standing transmission pricing policy. When a transmission provider must construct 
network upgrades to provide transmission service, the Commission generally allows the 
transmission provider to charge the higher of the embedded costs of the transmission 
system with the expansion costs rolled in, or incremental expansion costs, but not both 
(which would constitute prohibited “and” pricing).47 While Commission policy has 
traditionally favored rolled-in transmission pricing,48 the choice between rolled-in and 
incremental pricing depends on the facts—i.e., whether all customers benefit from the 
upgrades.49 As noted, there are good reasons, grounded in cost-causation and beneficiary-
pays principles, to apply incremental pricing to interconnection-related network upgrades 
required by large loads. In addition, incremental pricing sends the appropriate marginal-
cost price signal to large loads and encourages efficient siting decisions.50  
 
45 Cf. Midcontinent Indep. Sys. Operator, Inc., 189 FERC ¶ 61,108 at P 198 (2024), order on reh’g, 191 
FERC ¶ 61,231 (2025) (interconnection customers are the “primary beneficiaries” of network upgrades to 
accommodate large amounts of new generation resources). 
46 ANOPR at P 16. 
47 See Order No. 2003 at P 694 & n.111; Policy Statement in Inquiry Concerning the Commission’s Pricing 
Policy for Transmission Services Provided by Public Utilities under the Federal Power Act, 59 Fed. Reg. 
55031 (Nov. 3, 1994), FERC Stats. & Regs., Regulations Preambles ¶ 31,005 (1994). See generally Pa. 
Elec. Co. v. FERC, 11 F.3d 207 (D.C. Cir. 1993) (upholding Commission transmission pricing policy); 
Northeast Utils. Serv. Co. v. FERC, 993 F.2d 937, 954–55 (1st Cir. 1993) (upholding Commission 
transmission pricing policy). 
48 See Order No. 2003 at P 678. See, e.g., W. Mass. Elec. Co. v. FERC, 165 F.3d 922 (D.C. Cir. 1999). 
49 See BNP Paribas Energy Trading GP v. FERC, 743 F.3d 264, 269–70 (D.C. Cir. 2014) (describing 
Commission electric transmission pricing policy). 
50 See Order No. 2003 at PP 695, 702 (noting importance of price signals for generator interconnection 
siting). Under Order No. 681, any long-term transmission rights made available by transmission upgrades 
or expansions must be made available upon request to the party that pays for the upgrades in accordance 

--- PAGE 21 ---
 
21 
Interconnecting loads should be responsible for the costs of these network 
upgrades to ensure that other transmission customers do not bear stranded transmission 
costs for upgrades made to accommodate the interconnection of a large load that fails to 
materialize, does not take service in the anticipated volume or peak and off-peak patterns, 
or ceases operation.  Moreover, in the event that large loads do not fully pay for upgrades 
up front, utilities should have the flexibility to determine the appropriate financial 
security for such upgrades. The capital structure of most cooperatives, which, by design, 
runs lean on the debt/equity ratio, limits their ability to absorb the costs of the build-out 
associated with large loads in ways that do not unfairly burden other customers. 
The ANOPR seeks comment on whether such costs should be offset through a 
crediting mechanism and, if so, over how many years.51  NRECA does not support a 
hard-and-fast rule on whether such a crediting mechanism is appropriate for large-load 
interconnections. As a general matter, if an interconnecting load pays the upfront costs of 
network upgrades and it is determined under the applicable cost-allocation method that 
the costs of these network upgrades should be rolled in the transmission provider’s 
transmission rates, then crediting the upfront costs is appropriate to prevent the load from 
paying twice for transmission service (i.e., prohibited “and” pricing).52 As already noted, 
however, there are good reasons why it may not be just and reasonable to roll in the costs 
of network upgrades to enable large-load interconnections. If the network upgrade costs 
 
with the applicable cost-allocation methods for the upgrades or expansions. Long-Term Firm Transmission 
Rights in Organized Electricity Markets, Order No. 681, 71 Fed. Reg. 43564 at P 185 (Aug. 1, 2006), 116 
FERC ¶ 61,077 (2006), order on reh'g, Order No. 681-A, 71 Fed. Reg. 68440 (Nov. 27, 2006), 117 FERC 
¶ 61,201 (2006), order on reh'g & clarification, Order No. 681-B, 126 FERC ¶ 61,254 (2009). 
51 ANOPR at P 25. 
52 See Order No. 2003 at P 694. 

--- PAGE 22 ---
 
22 
are not rolled in, then crediting is unnecessary and—indeed—inappropriate, because it 
would vitiate the purposes of assigning the upgrade costs to the interconnecting large 
load. In any event, therefore, a crediting mechanism should not be a uniform requirement.  
E. 
Principle 13 – Transition plans 
Principle 13 in the ANOPR states that “there must be a plan to implement these 
proposed reforms” and seeks comment on “appropriate transition plans, including the 
treatment of large load interconnections that are already being studied for 
interconnection.”53 A reasonable, orderly and comprehensive transition period will be 
necessary. The proposed reforms, in whatever form, would require coordination with 
existing generator-interconnection, transmission-service request, and transmission-
planning processes. The Commission should afford regional flexibility to decide how 
existing load interconnection studies are treated. 
VI. 
Conclusion 
Any further action by the Commission in this rulemaking, including the issuance 
of a statement of policy of general applicability or a notice of proposed rulemaking 
should be made consistent with the above comments. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
/s/  Mary Ann Ralls                          
Mary Ann Ralls 
Senior Director, Regulatory Counsel 
National Rural Electric Cooperative 
Association 
4301 Wilson Boulevard  
Arlington, VA  22203 
(703) 907-5837 
maryann.ralls@nreca.coop 
 
53 ANOPR at P 30. 

--- PAGE 23 ---
 
23 
 
Randolph Elliott 
McCarter & English, LLP 
1301 K Street, NW, Suite 1000 West 
Washington, DC 20005 
(202) 753-3400 
relliott@mccarter.com 
Counsel for the National Rural Electric 
Cooperative Association
November 21, 2025
 
 
