--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
November 21, 2025 
 
The Honorable David Rosner, Chairman 
The Honorable Laura Swett, Commissioner 
The Honorable Lindsay S. See, Commissioner 
The Honorable Judy W. Chang, Commissioner 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
888 First Street, NE 
Washington, DC 20426 
 
Re: Docket No. RM26-4-000: Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission 
System 
 
Dear Chairman Rosner and Commissioners, 
 
The Steel Manufacturers Association (“SMA”) respectfully submits the following 
comments on the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking pursuant to the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission’s (“FERC”) request for public comments on Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System. SMA represents electric arc furnace steel manufacturers, which 
account for more than 70 percent of domestic steel capacity. Our members operate across the 
country and range in size from America’s largest publicly traded steel producers to single-
facility, privately-owned family businesses. They make essential products for America’s 
infrastructure, national security, energy and manufacturing sectors. Most importantly, they create 
well-paying, community-sustaining jobs. American steelmakers have committed over $20 billion 
of investments since 2018 to keep America’s steel sector strong and competitive in a global 
marketplace.    

--- PAGE 2 ---
SMA greatly appreciates the Department of Energy and FERC’s initiative to ensure that 
Americans and domestic industries have access to affordable, reliable and secure electricity. We 
also agree that large loads on the grid must be able to connect to the transmission system in a 
timely, orderly and non-discriminatory manner. Electric arc furnace steelmaking is the most 
efficient steelmaking globally, yet it requires a significant, high-demand load on the electrical grid. 
FERC traditionally defines “Large Loads” as greater than 20 MW; electric arc furnace steelmaking 
averages a load between 40 to 100 MW.   
The SMA is concerned that FERC’s NOPR would require new load customers to 
shoulder 100 percent of all network upgrade costs identified in the interconnection study. This 
cost allocation departs from the approach typically taken by state commissions. While data 
centers may be able to absorb these costs without rendering their projects uneconomic, new 
electric arc furnace steel mills almost certainly cannot. Imposing these costs on steelmakers 
would undermine the administration’s strong policy commitment to expanding domestic steel 
production, potentially making new steel investments more costly and increasing costs for 
American steelmakers battling steel being dumped globally.  
To safeguard such manufacturing loads, the SMA is proposing that the NOPR allow a 
new load to opt out of FERC jurisdiction and remain under state interconnection authority. This 
approach preserves a standardized, accelerated federal pathway for data centers facing state-level 
delays, without penalizing new manufacturing projects locating in states that actively support 
industrial growth. An opt out would also recognize the contrasting demand-response capacity, 
and attendant benefits, of loads such as electric arc furnace steel manufacturers, which can shed 
80% of load with several minutes notice. 
 

--- PAGE 3 ---
Thank you for your consideration. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Brandon Farris 
Vice President, Government Affairs 
Steel Manufacturers Association 
 
 
