--- PAGE 1 ---
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate 
) 
 
       Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Transmission System  
 
 
 
) 
 
INITIAL COMMENTS OF  
THE ARKANSAS PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION 
 
 
The Arkansas Public Service Commission (“APSC” or “Arkansas”) submits these 
comments to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“Commission” or “FERC”)  regarding 
its advanced notice of proposed rulemaking (“ANOPR”) regarding reforms to the interconnection 
processes for large loads connecting to the transmission system for consideration and final action.  
While the APSC shares the federal objective of ensuring that our electric grid can reliably 
accommodate transformative load growth, including advanced industries, hyperscale data centers, 
and emerging manufacturing sectors, the proposed rule is unnecessarily harmful for Arkansas and 
risks disrupting well‑functioning regional and state processes. 
I. 
Comments 
The APSC has general regulatory authority over electric and natural gas public utilities and 
certain water and sewer public utilities providing retail utility services to the public for 
compensation.  It is charged with the duty of ensuring that public utilities provide safe, adequate, 
and reliable utility service at just and reasonable rates.  As a member of two regional transmission 
organizations (“RTO”), Southwest Power Pool (“SPP”) and Midcontinent Independent System 
Operator (“MISO”), the APSC is keenly positioned to offer an informed perspective on the current 
interconnection processes as it applies to resource adequacy.  The APSC offers that there have been 
several recent developments within these RTOs and within the State to highlight as evidence that 

--- PAGE 2 ---
there are already processes for the integration of large loads and therefore the proposed ANOPR 
is unnecessary.   
Within our western footprint, SPP is proposing innovative tariff offerings such as the 
High‑Impact Load (“HILLS”) and Conditional High Impact Large Load  (CHILLS”) proposed 
tariff revisions which will establish a 90-day study and approval process for interconnecting large 
loads.  Within MISO, Arkansas supported and FERC recently approved MISO’s Expedited 
Resource Addition Study Process to address faster processes through MISO’s interconnection 
queue, which addresses the issues FERC seeks to remedy.  These reforms are specifically tailored 
to regional system needs and reflect ongoing coordination among the RTOs, load‑serving entities, 
transmission owners and state regulators.  
 Simultaneously, the Arkansas General Assembly has enacted several new laws this year, 
including Acts 373, 548, and 576 of 2025 that reinforce the state’s authority over large‑load siting, 
resource procurement, reliability planning, and economic development.  Act 373 of 2025 in 
particular reduces project review timeframes which allows critical infrastructure to come online 
faster. 
Together, these recent regional and state changes demonstrate that Arkansas possesses modern, 
flexible, and effective frameworks to process large‑load interconnection requests in a timely and 
reliable manner.  Federal action should be reserved for regions where processes are failing, not 
those where reforms are already in place and producing results. 
The APSC is concerned that the ANOPR risks disrupting states jurisdiction and the effective 
processes highlighted above.  Arkansas’ vertically integrated utility model depends on clear state-
level oversight.  Further, utilities under APSC jurisdiction operate under state‑jurisdictional 
resource adequacy, retail rate design, and reliability obligations.  Reassigning interconnection 

--- PAGE 3 ---
authority for large loads to FERC would blur the distinction between retail service and 
transmission interconnection, complicate state‑regulated special‑rate contracts, create uncertainty 
regarding which entity bears the obligation to serve, and risk conflict with the state’s legislative 
framework.  Creating a system where the load is separated from the obligation to serve would 
result in the very thing the ANOPR seeks to avoid: making the grid less reliable. 
Rather than imposing new standards, the APSC urges FERC to support the state regulatory 
authorities by establishing voluntary best practices, establish backstop authority only in instances 
of demonstrated delay or discrimination, and avoid any implication that the federal government is 
asserting jurisdiction over retail‑level obligations. 
II. 
Conclusions and recommendations 
The Commission respectfully recommends that FERC decline to impose the proposed 
nationwide rule in regions such as SPP and MISO  where sufficient processes already exist.  
Arkansas’s legislative framework, combined with its RTO processes are evolving to meet the needs 
of large‑load customers without sacrificing reliability, cost‑causation principles, or the state’s 
statutory authority.  If FERC proceeds, it should only enact a rule that: preserves state jurisdiction 
over retail service, resource planning, and cost recovery; limits any final rule to transmission‑level 
engineering studies only; recognizes existing regional processes such as SPP’s proposed HILLS 
and CHILLS as compliant alternatives; sets a minimum load threshold of no less than 100 MW; 
and requires robust coordination with state regulators. 
Arkansas has already positioned itself to meet the growing needs of the AI, data‑center, 
and industrial sectors.  A federal rule that overrides or duplicates these efforts is unnecessary and 
counterproductive.  FERC should recognize the strong performance of the existing regional 
processes and the different structures of states’ regulatory frameworks and avoid imposing a 

--- PAGE 4 ---
blanket rule that risks creating delays, jurisdictional conflict, and unintended cost burdens on 
ratepayers. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
