--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
November 21st, 2025 
The Honorable Laura Swett, Chairman 
The Honorable David Rosner, Commissioner 
The Honorable Lindsay S. See, Commissioner 
The Honorable Judy W. Chang, Commissioner 
The Honorable David A LaCerte, Commissioner 
 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
888 First Street, NE 
Washington, DC 20426 
Re: Secretary of Energy’s Direction that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Initiate 
Rulemaking Procedures and Proposal Regarding the Interconnection of Large Loads 
Pursuant to the Secretary’s Authority Under Section 403 of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act 
 
Dear Chairman Swett and Commissioners, 
The American Chemistry Council (ACC) appreciates the opportunity to comment on the Advance Notice of 
Proposed Rulemaking regarding the Interconnection of Large Loads. Chemical manufacturing relies on 
highly reliable and competitively priced electricity, and many future facilities will require transmission-
level interconnection in order to expand or modernize operations to meet the increasing demands driven 
by AI, Data Center, and domestic manufacturing. 
Electricity demand in the United States is rising and is projected to accelerate over the next five years due 
to data center growth, and increases in domestic manufacturing. Current practices for connecting large 
loads to the transmission system vary across regions and often create uncertainty for project timelines and 
upgrade responsibilities.  
Chemical manufacturing underpins the semiconductor and artificial intelligence supply chain by providing 
the critical materials, process chemicals, and infrastructure inputs required for chipmaking and modern 
data center development. Ensuring reliable electricity access for these facilities is essential to maintaining 
U.S. competitiveness in advanced technologies. 
ACC appreciates the Department of Energy & the Commission's leadership on this topic and looks forward 
to participating in future rulemaking proceeds. Should you have any questions please feel free to contact 
Trevor_Balough@americanchemistry.com. 
Respectfully, 
 
Trevor Balough 
Director, Energy & Climate 
