--- PAGE 1 ---
 
1 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate 
Transmission System 
) 
) 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
 
COMMENTS OF TRACT HOLDING COMPANY I, LLC 
Pursuant to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (“FERC” or “Commission”) 
October 27, 2025 notice in the above-captioned proceeding,1 Tract Holding Company I, LLC, on 
its behalf and on behalf of its affiliates, provides the following comments in support of the Advance 
Notice of Proposed Rulemaking2 issued by the Secretary of Energy pursuant to Section 403 of the 
Department of Energy Organization Act (“ANOPR”)3 to “present[] potential reforms to ensure the 
timely and orderly interconnection of large loads to the transmission system.”4  
I. 
DESCRIPTION OF TRACT 
 
Tract Holding Company I, LLC through its affiliates (collectively, “Tract”), acquires land 
and develops shovel-ready development sites for data centers—pre-positioning power, fiber, 
zoning, and entitlements—to expedite speed to power and provide data center operators with faster 
build cycles at lower risk. Tract is led by an experienced and highly-regarded team of network, 
energy, cloud, and data center experts, dedicated to accelerating responsible investment in digital 
infrastructure. Tract’s acquisition and development services focus on master planning data center 
 
1 Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Notice Inviting Comments, Docket No. 
RM26-4-000 (Oct. 27, 2025); see also Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Notice 
Granting Extension of Time, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Nov. 7, 2025) (granting an extension of time to file initial 
comments to and including November 21, 2025). 
2 Secretary of Energy, Secretary of Energy’s Direction that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Initiate 
Rulemaking Procedures and Proposal Regarding Interconnection of Large Loads Pursuant to the Secretary’s 
Authority Under Section 403 of the Department of Energy Organization Act (Oct. 23, 2025) (“ANOPR”). 
3 42 U.S.C. § 7173(a). 
4 ANOPR at P 1. 

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
2 
 
technology parks with expertise in designing and developing sites to accommodate large electric 
loads required for fast-growing customers. 
Tract has several projects in progress in jurisdictions across the country, with submitted 
load interconnection requests pending with transmission providers in both the Eastern and Western 
Interconnections, as well as in ERCOT. As a developer of data center sites across the United States, 
Tract has a substantial and direct interest in the outcome of this proceeding that cannot be 
adequately represented by any other party. Data centers, as large load industrial users, rely on Tract 
to provide ready access to critical, long-lead utility infrastructure to support the construction and 
ultimate operation of their facilities. Tract assumes the project responsibilities and financial risks 
to ensure business-critical infrastructure is available to its end-use customers so they can have a 
predictable path to vertical data center development. By mitigating typical development risks, 
Tract provides value to its customers in the form of speed (reduced development intervals) and 
certainty (reduced financial and execution risks), both of which are critical factors in approving 
investment decisions of this magnitude. 
Tract supports the goals of DOE and FERC in this ANOPR. The rules that emerge from 
this proceeding should ensure that developers continue to be able to compete for load 
interconnection capacity without confronting unduly burdensome barriers to entry. The dominance 
of the U.S. data center industry relative to global competitors is at least in part attributable to the 
ability of developers to take development risk with time and monetary commitments to quickly 
bring data centers online. Today, the vast majority of data center capacity in the United States is 
owned by companies that are not hyperscalers, and by 2030, those same companies are expected 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
3 
 
to own 60% of data center capacity.5 Looking forward to the next 10-15 years, even a majority of 
hyperscaler capacity is expected to be leased from third-party operators. Thus, any rules adopted 
by the Commission should provide an even playing field for all data center developers, without 
unduly discriminating against companies on the basis of their business model or size.  
II. 
RESPONSE TO DOE ANOPR REQUEST FOR COMMENTS 
A. 
Principle 3: Studying Load and Generation Together 
Tract supports DOE’s proposal to study load and hybrid facilities together with generating 
facilities located at the same point of interconnection. Such joint study process should be at the 
option of both the load and generation customer and should be designed in such a way to result in 
faster and/or less costly interconnection for both the load and the generator. Done properly, this 
would incentivize loads to bring their own generation or at least select locations on the 
transmission network that have the least impact on reliability. 
B. 
Principle 4: Standardized Study Deposits, Readiness Requirements, and 
Withdrawal Penalties 
Tract agrees with adopting standardized study deposits, readiness requirements, and 
withdrawal penalties, provided that they are consistent with the Commission’s cost-causation 
principles. Adopting deposits or penalties that are not sized to reflect a project’s impact on the 
system will unnecessarily and economically deter data center development, threatening the ability 
to achieve the Administration’s dual goals of energy dominance and winning the AI race. Any 
security deposit requirements or financial penalties should therefore be based on the actual costs 
caused by the action being securitized or penalized, as well as align with project development 
milestones. Readiness requirements should align with the generator interconnection process and 
 
5 2025 United States Data Center Market Outlook at 12, Newmark (Feb. 13, 2025), available at 
https://nmrk.imgix.net/uploads/images/2025-US-DataCenter-MarketOutlook-FINAL.pdf. 
 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
4 
 
hinge on project site control.6  
1. The Commission Should Ensure Predictability 
As a general principle, prospective large load customers require the ability to reasonably 
predict costs for electric service to evaluate both the feasibility of specific projects and the 
attractiveness of investing in the broader energy market. This means that large load customers 
must understand how interconnection costs will be calculated and be able to reasonably predict the 
cost of service of load. The Commission should establish a standardized methodology, whether by 
requiring fixed deposit amounts based on load size, by kWh, or through another metric, whereby 
customers can reasonably calculate anticipated charges and plan their investments accordingly. 
2. The Commission Should Adopt Queue Management Reforms 
Under Order No. 2023,7 there are now firm deadlines by which utilities are required to 
complete their interconnection studies for new generation requests and penalties for missing those 
deadlines.8 The Commission should apply the lessons it learned in the generator interconnection 
process and adopt similar deadlines for studying standardized load interconnection requests. 
Furthermore,  the Commission should establish standardized rules for each step in the large 
load interconnection process, the expected timing of each step, and other guidelines governing 
queue management, including whether the transmission provider is employing a cluster study or 
sequential study model, similar to generator interconnection.9  Transmission providers should be 
 
6 Improvements to Generator Interconnection Procs. & Agreements, Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054, PP 594, 
596 (2023), order on reh’g, 185 FERC ¶ 61,063 (2023) (“Order No. 2023”), order on reh’g, Order No. 2023-A, 186 
FERC ¶ 61,199 (2024). 
7 See Order No. 2023, 184 FERC ¶ 61,054. 
8 The change was prompted based on FERC’s assessment of the harms to the electrical system and projects due to 
the uncertain and expanding timelines for the interconnection process for generators. Id. at P 873. 
9 For example, the Evergy process has discrete steps in the interconnection process with associated timelines. See, 
e.g., Direct Testimony of Jeff Martin on Behalf of Evergy Missouri Metro and Evergy Missouri West at 9–12, 
Missouri Public Service Commission Case No. EO-2025-0154 (Feb. 14, 2025), available at 
https://efis.psc.mo.gov/Document/Display/819047 (explaining the different phases on the interconnection process 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
5 
 
required to provide information on (1) the potential timeline for the completion of required 
interconnection studies, (2) the other steps that may be included in the interconnection process, 
and (2) how the transmission provider will evaluate or manage multiple requests from competing 
large load customers.  
While Tract appreciates the complexity of managing interconnection queues, information 
about interconnection study timelines and how the queue will be managed is crucial for prospective 
large load customers as they develop their own financing and construction timelines. Providing 
such details about the process improves overall transparency and reduces the risk that projects 
become stranded in the interconnection process. 
3. The Commission Should Adopt Clear and Predictable Financial Security 
Requirements that are Consistent with Commission Precedent. 
Tract appreciates the need to provide financial security for load interconnection requests, 
but believes financial security requirements should be clear, predictable, in line with cost-
causation, and tied to project progress. Creditworthiness should be based on factors that may 
influence the amount and type of required security, such as credit rating, balance sheet health, 
access to credit instruments, or other relevant financial information about the large load customer 
while keeping in mind the different business models and sizes of large load customers so as to 
provide an even playing field and facilitate, rather than stymie, investment. If factors to determine 
creditworthiness and permitted security instruments are standardized and known before entry into 
the large load interconnection process, prospective large load customers can progress projects with 
 
for new large load customers and the general, anticipated timeline for each phase); Direct Testimony of Bradley D. 
Lutz on Behalf of Every Missouri Metro and Evergy Missouri West at Schedule BDL-1 at 45, Missouri Public 
Service Commission Case No. EO-2025-0154 (Feb. 14, 2025), available at 
https://efis.psc.mo.gov/Document/Display/819048 (proposed tariff outlining the use of the cluster study process to 
manage the queue); see also Explainer on the Interconnection Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission (Dec. 12, 2024), available at https://www.ferc.gov/explainer-interconnection-notice-
proposed-rulemaking (discussing the implementation of the cluster study process). 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
6 
 
accurate cost knowledge or avoid a certain market altogether—both practices reduce the risk of 
stranded investment thereby benefiting all parties.   
Tract recommends that letters of credit, surety bonds, and parent company guarantees are 
permitted instruments when financial security is required.  
Consistent with the Commission’s cost-causation principles, financial security should only 
be required for actual incremental costs caused by the large load customer, and should not provide 
a windfall to transmission providers in the event of default. Guaranteeing a transmission provider’s 
revenue should not be the purpose of large load customers providing financial security. Given that 
large load interconnection customers are availing themselves of the transmission system like any 
other load, Tract proposes that the Commission adopt the same financial security requirements for 
large load interconnection customers as exist for other transmission service customers (e.g., 
security for network upgrades in PJM). 
In addition, Tract recommends the Commission require large load interconnection 
customers to only post financial security as they approach key project milestones (i.e., to support 
detailed design, permitting and right-of-way acquisition, procurement, pad acceptance, 
construction and energization), rather than up front as a lump sum because this places an 
unnecessary financial burden on the large load interconnection customer and creates incremental 
impediments to development. A milestone-based approach is consistent with the approach 
employed in the generator interconnection process, whereby generators provide capital 
contributions and financial security before a transmission provider incurs certain costs. Moreover, 
a milestone-based approach minimizes stranded cost risk for transmission providers and ratepayers 
by ensuring that anticipated costs are securitized before they are incurred, and it maintains fairness 
for large-load customers making major infrastructure investments that are contributing to overall 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
7 
 
economic growth. It also ensures that companies like Tract and data center developers, can better 
forecast and deploy capital expenditures to develop new sources of generation and data centers. 
Tract further recommends that any amount of financial security provided increase in 
proportion to the transmission provider’s investment or expenditures as the project progresses, and 
decrease in proportion to payments made by the large load customer. Each dollar committed by 
the transmission providers to serve a large load customer should be financially secured by that 
large load customer prior to that dollar being committed by the transmission provider. No more 
and no less, and no earlier and no later.10 Such a milestone-based approach establishes a predictable 
capital outlay and reduces the likelihood of large load customers bearing an outsized risk at the 
beginning of the interconnection process, while also providing the transmission provider and 
ratepayers sufficient protections. It also reduces the risks associated with the transmission provider 
functioning as a de facto bank during the development of projects and better reflects broader trends 
in project development. 
4. Large Load Interconnection Agreements and Related Financial Security 
Agreements Should be Assignable to Creditworthy Third-Parties. 
The Commission should require that large load interconnection agreements and any 
related financial security agreements be assignable to creditworthy third parties. Not only does 
this facilitate a robust project development ecosystem, it also protects ratepayers from stranded 
costs and underutilized or incomplete infrastructure.  
Specifically, Tract recommends that any agreement entered into between the large load 
customer and the transmission providers as part of the load interconnection process provide for 
 
10 Riu, E. et al., Balancing Risk and Growth: Best Practices for Utility Credit and Collateral Requirements for Large 
Load Customers at 11, 14, Energy and Environmental Economics (July 2025), available at 
https://www.ethree.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/08/E3_Utility-Credit-and-Collateral-for-Large-
Load_Whitepaper.pdf. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
8 
 
assignment by right to: (i) a third party with an equal to or better credit rating; (ii) a third party so 
long as such third party provides the requisite financial security (which security instrument may 
be in the form of a parent company guarantee if deemed appropriate based on credit rating); or (iii) 
an affiliate of the large load customer or any person or entity which, through merger, 
reorganization, acquisition or otherwise, succeeds to all or substantially all of the large load 
customer’s business.  
Adding such language to each agreement provides necessary certainty for project 
development, protects ratepayers by fostering a competitive data center development industry, and 
ensures that any eventual party to an agreement is creditworthy and can afford the financial 
obligations it assumes. Furthermore, assignability protects transmission providers and ratepayers 
by allowing projects to change hands in the event of commercial necessity, ensuring project 
continuity and reducing the risk of stranded assets. This approach additionally helps utilities plan 
better and facilitates forecasting for the ultimate end-use customer. 
C. 
Principle 5: Hybrid Facilities Should be Studied Based on Amount of Net 
Injection at the Interconnection Customer’s Election. 
Tract agrees that load and generation interconnection requests should have the option to 
undertake netted study situations, but it should not be required. For example, in the scenario 
provided by the DOE in the ANOPR,11 the hybrid facility may want the flexibility for withdrawal 
rights even though the nameplate capacity of the co-located generating facility is sufficient to serve 
the entire load. Similarly, a hybrid facility may want the flexibility for injection rights greater than 
100 MW if it seeks to deliver and monetize the capacity of the generating facility at times when 
the load is not drawing from the generator at its full capacity. 
 
11 ANOPR at P 22. 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
9 
 
D. 
Principle 7: Interconnection Study of Curtailable or Dispatchable Large 
Loads 
Tract agrees with the proposal to expedite the interconnection study of large loads that 
agree to be curtailable and hybrid facilities that agree to be curtailable and dispatchable. This could 
take the form of a serialized or clustered queue process, such as those that exist for surplus or 
provisional interconnection processes. FERC will need to determine whether it wants to impose 
standardized study assumptions for the loads and generators included in the power flow models 
underlying those studies. Such studies should be able to be completed in 60 days. 
E. 
Principle 8: Load and Hybrid Network Upgrades 
To the extent any network upgrades are assigned through interconnection studies to load 
or hybrid facilities, such costs should be offset through a crediting mechanism based on the actual 
usage of those upgrades by other networked customers. Those credits should last until the costs of 
the corresponding facilities are recovered 100%, not based on any pre-determined timeframe.  
F. 
Principle 9: Interconnection Customers Should Have the Option to Build 
Tract agrees with the DOE’s proposal to afford load interconnection customers the same 
or equivalent option to build as currently provided to generator interconnection customers.  
G. 
Principle 13: Transition 
Tract agrees that there must be a plan to implement the proposed reforms that recognize 
the time, capital, and effort spent on requests that are already being studied for interconnection. 
Negatively affecting those existing requests not only wastes individual requestor’s time, capital, 
and effort, but could also negatively impact all large load requests by causing cascading re-studies 
that delay or increase the costs of other large load requests.12 Existing requestors should have the 
 
12 The Commission routinely implements transmission mechanisms when approving new rules. Order No. 2023, 184 
FERC ¶ 61,054 at P 855. 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
10 
 
option, but not the obligation, to benefit from the ANOPR’s reforms. The reforms should not 
require re-study or add costs to existing requests. 
III. 
COMMUNICATIONS 
Please address all notices and communications regarding this proceeding to the following 
persons who are also designated for service in this proceeding: 
Allison Girvin 
Orijit Ghoshal 
Tract Holding Company I, LLC 
c/o Tract Capital Management, LP 
3200 Cherry Creek S. Dr., Ste 700 
Denver, CO 80209 
Tel: 303-276-7950 
allison.girvin@tract.com 
orijit.ghoshal@tract.com 
 
 
 
Tyler O’Connor 
Crowell & Moring LLP 
1001 Pennsylvania Avenue NW 
Washington, DC  20004 
Tel: 202-624-2500  
toconnor@crowell.com 
 
Kathryn Douglass 
Crowell & Moring, LLP 
1601 Wewatta St., Ste 815 
Denver, Colorado 80202 
Tel: 303-524-8654 
kdouglass@crowell.com 
 
IV. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons above, Tract respectfully urges the Commission to adopt a standard large 
load interconnection process consistent with the comments herein.  

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
November 21, 2025 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Tyler O’Connor 
 
Tyler O’Connor 
Crowell & Moring, LLP 
1001 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW 
Washington, DC  20004-2595 
 
Kathryn Douglass 
Crowell & Moring, LLP 
1601 Wewatta St., Ste 815 
Denver, Colorado 80202 
 
Counsel for Tract Holding Company I, LLC 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
12 
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
I hereby certify that on this 21st day of November, 2025, a copy of the foregoing 
document has been electronically served upon each person designated on the official service list 
in this proceeding. 
 
/s/ Kathy Lowrey 
 
Kathy Lowrey 
Crowell & Moring LLP 
1001 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW 
Washington, DC 20004 
202-624-2940 
Kathylowrey@crowell.com 
 
