--- PAGE 1 ---
- 1 - 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate ) 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Transmission System 
 
 
 
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
) 
 
COMMENTS OF WIRES  
 
 
Pursuant to the Notice Inviting Comments issued by the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission (“FERC” or “Commission”) on October 27, 2025,1 WIRES2 submits the following 
comments on behalf of its members.  These comments address the Advance Notice of Proposed 
Rulemaking (“ANOPR”),3 which was initiated following the Secretary of Energy’s (“Secretary”) 
directive, pursuant to section 403 of the Department of Energy Organization Act,4 requiring the 
Commission to initiate rulemaking procedures.  WIRES respectfully requests Commission 
consideration of these comments. 
WIRES promotes investment in the North American electric transmission system and 
champions robust and effective transmission solutions to address reliability, economic, and 
environmental challenges.  WIRES also supports initiatives aimed at reducing or eliminating 
uneconomic barriers to transmission development.  WIRES’ members are committed to 
developing the transmission infrastructure required to reliably supply energy for both existing and 
 
1 Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Notice Inviting Comments, Docket 
No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 27, 2025). 
2 WIRES is a non-profit trade association of investor-, publicly-, and cooperatively-owned transmission providers 
and developers, transmission customers, regional grid managers, and equipment and service companies.  This filing 
is supported by the full supporting members of WIRES but the filing does not necessarily reflect the views of the 
Regional Transmission Organization/Independent System Operator (“RTO/ISO”) members of WIRES.  For more 
information about WIRES, please visit www.wiresgroup.com. 
3 Ensuring the Timely and Orderly Interconnection of Large Loads, Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 27, 2025). 
4 42 U.S.C. § 7173. 

--- PAGE 2 ---
- 2 - 
 
future loads.  Additionally, WIRES advocates for constructive regulatory policies and reforms that 
address regulations hindering development of needed transmission infrastructure or adding 
unnecessary costs or process hurdles that deliver no clear value.  WIRES and its members have 
consistently supported policies that establish regulatory frameworks in furtherance of timely, cost-
effective investment in transmission infrastructure to meet the nation’s growing electricity 
demand. 
To that end, WIRES generally supports the urgent need, as recognized by the Secretary, to 
expedite and streamline the interconnection of large loads.  As the Commission further considers 
the ANOPR, WIRES urges the Commission to ensure that ongoing regulatory initiatives aimed at 
achieving the objectives embodied in the Secretary’s proposal are not derailed - intentionally or as 
an unintended consequence of any Commission action.  Finally, WIRES also seeks clarification 
that any further action taken in this proceeding will protect utilities’ ability to build the 
transmission upgrades and expansions needed to interconnect large loads and preserve their 
opportunity to earn a return on those investments. 
I. 
COMMUNICATIONS 
 
All communications and correspondence regarding these comments should be addressed to: 
 
Larry Gasteiger 
Executive Director 
WIRES 
529 Fourteenth Street, NW 
Suite 1280 
Washington, D.C. 20045 
Ph: (703) 980-5750 
lgasteiger@exec.wiresgroup.com 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 3 ---
- 3 - 
 
II. 
COMMENTS 
A. The ANOPR Should Compliment, Not Impede, Regulatory Policies, Practices, and 
Ongoing Reforms that are Essential to Accelerate the Transmission Infrastructure 
Development Necessary to Accommodate Rapid Large Load Growth 
 
WIRES commends the Secretary for recognizing the potential need for action to support 
projected growth in United States electricity demand, including the expected rapid proliferation of 
large loads.  The United States is at a critical inflection point.  According to the ICF May 2025 
Report, the Energy Information Agency (“EIA”) predicted a 12 percent increase in electricity 
demand by 2030 and 60 percent by 2050.5  However, after incorporating the latest demand 
forecasts from PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (“PJM”), Electric Reliability Council of Texas 
(“ERCOT”), Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc. (“MISO”), and the Southeast 
Regional Council (“SERC”) -Southeast, ICF’s analysis found that those projections could be much 
higher – 25 percent by 2030 and 78 percent by 2050.6  These anticipated dramatic increases are 
largely driven by data centers, which are expected to consume up to 12 percent of total electricity 
production by 2028.7 
This Administration also acknowledged, through various actions including America’s AI 
Action Plan, Accelerating Federal Permitting of Data Center Infrastructure,8 and Strengthening 
the Reliability and Security of the United States Electric Grid,9 that rapid modernization and 
 
5 Lalit Batra, Deb Harris, George Katsigiannakis, Justin Mackovyak, Himali Parmar, and Maria Scheller, ICF, 
Rising Current:  America’s growing electricity demand at 5 (May 2025) (available at https://www.icf.com/-
/media/files/icf/reports/2025/energy-demand-report-icf-2025_report.pdf?rev=c87f111ab97f481a8fe3d3148a372f7f) 
(“ICF May 2025 Report”). 
6 Id. at 3 and 5. 
7 Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, 2024 United States Data Center Energy Usage Report at 6 (Dec. 20, 
2024) (available at https://escholarship.org/uc/item/32d6m0d1). 
8 Executive Order No. 14318, Accelerating Federal Permitting of Data Center Infrastructure (July 23, 2025), 90 FR 
35385 (July 28, 2025). 
9 Executive Order No. 14262, Strengthening the Reliability and Security of the United States Electric Grid (Apr. 8, 
2025), 90 FR 15521 (Apr. 14, 2025).  

--- PAGE 4 ---
- 4 - 
 
expansion of the grid will be needed to service this new demand in a reliable, affordable, and 
secure manner.10  For data centers and other large loads, transmission serves a dual purpose.  Not 
only does it support physical connection to system infrastructure, a robust and proactively planned 
grid unlocks access to lower cost energy sources for those loads and facilitates reliable and resilient 
delivery of power. 
Efforts to meet these growing interconnection and emerging transmission needs are already 
well underway in regions across the United States. For example, in December 2024, MISO 
approved the $21 billion Tranche 2.1 Long Range Transmission Plan Portfolio.11  The Tranche 2.1 
portfolio includes 24 projects and creates a 3,631-mile 765 kV backbone that ensures future 
reliability while providing benefits far in excess of costs.  The Tranche 2.1 portfolio builds on 
MISO’s Tranche 1 portfolio of projects approved in July 2022, representing a $10.3 billion 
investment in over 2,000 miles of new 375 kV facilities.12  These projects, and projects like them, 
will help ensure the availability of reliable, resilient, and affordable power for large-loads and 
residential ratepayers alike.   
Other regions are working to streamline large load interconnections.  PJM is actively 
exploring a range of reforms to ensure the timely and reliable integration of large loads into the 
 
10 See Zach Zimmerman, Rob Gramlich, and Michael Goggin, Grid Strategies, Delaying transmission increases 
costs and reduced benefits for consumers (November 2025) (“Grid Strategies 2025 Report”) (new report from Grid 
Strategies, prepared on behalf of WIRES, quantifying how delays in developing large-scale transmission impacts 
consumers by postponing or eliminating key benefits, as well as negatively affecting the broader economy by 
hindering economic growth, job creation and national security priorities – including those tied to the advancement of 
artificial intelligence and overall economic progress) (available at https://wiresgroup.com/wp-
content/uploads/2025/11/Cost-of-Delayed-Transmission-Report-by-Grid-Strategies-for-WIRES.pdf). 
11 See MISO News Release, MISO Board Approves Historic Transmission Plan to Strengthen Grid Reliability 
(Dec. 12, 2024) (available at https://www.misoenergy.org/meet-miso/media-center/2024/miso-board-approves-
historic-transmission-plan-to-strengthen-grid-reliability/).   
12 MISO Long Range Transmission Planning (available at https://www.misoenergy.org/planning/long-range-
transmission-planning/). 

--- PAGE 5 ---
- 5 - 
 
electric system.13  Likewise, Southwest Power Pool, Inc. (“SPP”) recently advanced a proposal of 
its own for large load interconnections.14  Each of these efforts are the product of extensive 
stakeholder engagement and were developed to reflect each planning system’s regional 
differences.  To the extent these ongoing efforts appear likely to yield new processes and reforms 
that could accomplish the Secretary’s goal of expediting the interconnection of large loads, the 
Commission should seek to accommodate these efforts expeditiously rather than inadvertently 
slowing down or preempting them with the adoption of a new regulatory regime.  Similarly, to 
accommodate more nuanced approaches nationwide, the Commission’s final order should allow 
for regional variations in compliance filings.  
Such an approach aligns with the ANOPR, which specifies that “there must be a plan to 
implement these proposed reforms” and calls for “appropriate transition plans, including the 
treatment of large load interconnections that are already being studied for interconnection.”15  
Accommodating efforts that are already underway in certain regions by adopting or implementing 
approved regulatory reforms will ensure that such ongoing initiatives and potential regulatory 
changes can effectively work in tandem to advance the Secretary’s objective of accelerating the 
interconnection of large loads. 
As these various proceedings progress, WIRES’ members are prepared to rapidly and 
efficiently deploy the transmission infrastructure needed to meet the rising demand.  WIRES and 
 
13 See PJM Critical Issue Fast Path (“CIFP”) stakeholder process initiated to address the development of reliability-
focused solutions to ensure large load additions can continue to be integrated rapidly and reliably, without causing 
resource inadequacy, while recognizing jurisdictional boundaries and data center relationships with existing Load 
Serving Entities and/or Electric Distribution Companies (available at https://www.pjm.com/committees-and-
groups/cifp-lla). 
14 See SPP News Release, SPP’s High Impact Large Load Interconnection Solutions: Powering Growth, 
Accelerating Opportunity (available at https://spp.org/markets-operations/high-impact-large-load-hill-integration/). 
15 ANOPR at P. 30. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
- 6 - 
 
its members look forward to partnering with the Commission, DOE, and the broader 
Administration to overcome constraints that stand in the way of the grid of the future. 
B. Any Commission Action Following the ANOPR Should Ensure that Transmission 
Owners Have the Opportunity to Build and Earn a Reasonable Return on the Costs 
of Upgrades and Expansions Needed to Interconnect Large Loads 
 
The Commission has consistently acknowledged that the transmission system functions as 
an integrated whole designed to serve all customers.  This framework allows each customer to take 
advantage of the many benefits provided by the transmission system.  Recognizing such 
opportunities, the Commission has a long-standing policy in favor of rolled-in rates for integrated 
systems.16  The Commission has stated that the principal reason behind its policy of broadly 
allocating costs is that “an integrated system is designed to achieve maximum efficiency and 
reliability at a minimum cost on a systemwide basis.  Implicit in this theory is the assumption that 
all customers . . . receive the benefits that are inherent in such an integrated system.”17  The 
addition of large loads is nascent in many regions and raises numerous questions, including the 
potential for cost shifts.  At base, transmission owners should be able to recover the costs of serving 
all loads and the manner in which that is done should respect Commission precedent and consider 
the interests of retail regulators in setting retail rates.   
As the Commission considers potential reforms, it is critical that the Commission ensure 
that any final action in this proceeding is consistent with longstanding precedent requiring that 
public utilities be afforded an opportunity to timely recover and earn a rate of return on 
transmission assets they are required to plan, develop, own, and operate.  Such compensation is 
 
16 Otter Tail Power Co., 12 FERC ¶ 61,169 at 61,420 (1980) (“Otter Tail Power Co.”) (the Commission has a 
longstanding policy in favor of rolled-in rates for integrated systems); see also Western Massachusetts Elec. Co. v. 
FERC, 165 F3d 922, 927 - 28 (D.C. Cir. 1999); Maine Pub. Serv. Co. v. FERC, 964 F.2d 5, 8 - 9 (D.C. Cir. 1992); 
City of Holyoke Gas & Elec. Dep’t v. FERC, 954 F.2d 740, 742 - 43 (D.C. Cir. 1992). 
17 Otter Tail Power Co. at 61,420. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
- 7 - 
 
necessary to account for the risks they undertake to fulfill these obligations.18  The interconnection 
of significant amounts of large load to the grid will demand extensive system planning and 
solutions that will necessitate collaboration and coordination among transmission owners and 
system planners.  Additionally, this process will require substantial capital investment to 
interconnect those loads.  WIRES members are poised to play a pivotal role in facilitating the 
prompt and reliable interconnection of network resources by ensuring the necessary 
accommodations are made to support this dynamic period of increasing demand.   
To ensure the timely and reliable interconnection of large loads, the Commission should 
require that its overall existing transmission service pricing policy is applicable to new large loads.  
That is, as they do today, such load customers should pay for the cost of transmission service with 
such costs reflecting the upgrades and expansions necessary to interconnect and serve such large 
load customers, over both the short and long term.  Moreover, developing a regulatory process to 
facilitate massive amounts of interconnection to an expanding grid - without properly 
compensating for the increased responsibilities and obligations that will be borne by transmission 
owners - would undermine transmission owners’ ability to continue to attract the capital required 
to make the necessary transmission infrastructure investments.  Such investment is necessary to 
provide safe, reliable, and resilient service, as well as maintain the financial soundness of the 
companies’ operations.  The Commission must ensure that transmission owners can timely recover 
their costs and investment and earn a reasonable rate of return for the risks and costs associated 
with their development, ownership, and operation of the transmission upgrades and expansions 
needed to achieve the Administration’s goal of expeditiously interconnecting large loads. 
 
18 Fed. Power Comm’n v. Hope Natural Gas Co., 320 U.S. 591, 603 (1944) (“Hope”); Bluefield Water Works & 
Improvement Co. v. Pub. Serv. Comm’n of W. Va., 262 U.S. 679, 692 – 693 (1923) (“Bluefield”). 

--- PAGE 8 ---
- 8 - 
 
III. 
CONCLUSION  
As detailed above, WIRES’ members stand ready, willing, and able to rapidly deploy the 
transmission infrastructure needed to meet the rising demand highlighted by the ANOPR and 
look forward to working with the Commission to overcome the constraints and challenges to 
achieve the Administration’s goal of rapidly integrating large load resources.   
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/  Larry Gasteiger 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Larry Gasteiger 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Executive Director 
WIRES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
529 Fourteenth Street, NW 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Suite 1280 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Washington, D.C. 20045 
Ph:  (703) 980-5750 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
lgasteiger@exec.wiresgroup.com 
 
November 21, 2025 
 
 

--- PAGE 9 ---
- 9 - 
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
 
 
I HEREBY CERTIFY that I have this day had served the foregoing document upon 
each person designated on the official service list compiled by the Secretary in this proceeding. 
 
Dated at Washington, D.C. this 21st day of November 2025. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/  Larry Gasteiger 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Larry Gasteiger 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Executive Director 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WIRES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
529 Fourteenth Street, NW, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Suite 1280 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Washington, D.C. 20045 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ph:  (703) 980-5750 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
lgasteiger@exec.wiresgroup.com 
 
 
