--- PAGE 1 ---
1 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Transmission System 
SUPPLEMENTAL COMMENTS OF ORACLE AMERICA, INC. 
Oracle America, Inc. (Oracle) respectfully submits these supplemental comments on the 
proposed advance notice of proposed rulemaking that the Secretary of Energy released for 
consideration and final action by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Commission).1  
As explained in its initial comments, Oracle strongly supports the White House’s commitment to 
win the “race to achieve global dominance in artificial intelligence (AI)”2 and encourages the 
Commission to bolster U.S. AI dominance by streamlining processes and incentivizing growth 
for infrastructure deployment both in the United States and in trusted partner/allied nations.3 
Oracle submits these supplemental comments so that the record includes important 
developments that occurred since the Commission solicited comments last fall, namely the White 
House Ratepayer Protection Pledge4 (which Oracle signed) and additional tangible commitments 
to “paying our own way” on energy.5  As a developer and operator of AI infrastructure and AI 
 
1 Notice Inviting Comments, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Oct. 27, 2025). 
2 Winning the Race – America’s AI Action Plan, THE WHITE HOUSE, at 1 (July 2025), 
https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Americas-AI-Action-Plan.pdf. 
3 Comments of Oracle, Docket No. RM26-4-000, at 2 (Nov. 21, 2025). 
4 Press Release, The White House, Ratepayer Protection Pledge (Mar. 4, 2026), 
https://www.whitehouse.gov/releases/2026/03/ratepayer-protection-pledge (Ratepayer Protection 
Pledge). 
5 See, e.g., Josh Pitcock, Oracle AI Infrastructure in 2026 and Our Commitment to Local 
Communities, ORACLE BLOG (Jan. 26, 2026), 
https://www.oracle.com/news/announcement/blog/oracle-ai-infrastructure-in-2026-and-our-
commitment-to-local-communities-2026-01-26 (Oracle Community Commitment Blog); Josh 
Pitcock, Building a Sustainable Future in New Mexico, ORACLE BLOG (Mar. 3, 2026), 
https://www.oracle.com/news/announcement/blog/building-a-sustainable-future-in-new-mexico-
2026-03-03. 

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
applications, Oracle is a leader in investing in technologies at different layers of the AI stack, 
including in infrastructure such as data centers, upgrades to the power grid, and self generation 
of power.6  Oracle is committed to ensuring that “the data center boom [is] leveraged to address 
affordability and benefit all American households and businesses,” including by “protect[ing] 
American consumers from price hikes due to data center energy and infrastructure 
requirements.”7  
Oracle is a leading investor and innovator in American AI technologies.  Oracle agrees 
with President Trump that “[d]ata center infrastructure is the foundation of the internet, cloud 
computing, and AI.”8  Oracle also agrees that “to harness the full power of American innovation 
…, the development of large-scale data center infrastructure and AI must occur here at home.”9   
Oracle’s AI applications and its cloud services allow access to multiple data centers in multiple 
locations, and Oracle is investing heavily in building and operating data centers throughout the 
United States, with sites in New Mexico, Texas, Michigan, Wisconsin, and presence throughout 
Illinois, Virginia, Arizona, California, Utah, and several other states.10  For example, many data 
centers being built on these sites are through the Stargate project, a partnership to bring in over 
 
6 Oracle Community Commitment Blog.  
7 Ratepayer Protection Pledge. 
8 Fact Sheet: President Donald J. Trump Advances Energy Affordability with the Ratepayer 
Protection Pledge, THE WHITE HOUSE (Mar. 4, 2026), https://www.whitehouse.gov/fact-
sheets/2026/03/fact-sheet-president-donald-j-trump-advances-energy-affordability-with-the-
ratepayer-protection-pledge (Ratepayer Pledge Fact Sheet).   
9 Ratepayer Protection Pledge Proclamation, THE WHITE HOUSE (Mar. 4, 2026), 
https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2026/03/ratepayer-protection-pledge-
proclamation. 
10 Data Center Locations, ORACLE, https://www.oracle.com/data-centers/#locations (last visited 
Apr. 22, 2026).  

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
$400 billion in data center investment over three years.11  In addition to promoting U.S. 
leadership in AI, these data center sites benefit the public by employing thousands of workers 
during both the construction and operating phases.12 
Oracle’s AI infrastructure investments benefit the public and local communities 
without raising consumer energy costs.  Oracle is a proud original signer to President Trump’s 
Ratepayer Protection Pledge, agreeing to protect Americans from energy price hikes due to data 
center energy needs and to lower electricity costs for consumers in the long-term.13  By signing 
the Ratepayer Protection Pledge, Oracle affirmed its commitment to pay the full costs of new 
generation resources and electricity needed to meet the energy demands of its data centers, pay 
for upgrades to grid infrastructure, and coordinate with grid operators to fortify the power grid.14 
Even before signing the Ratepayer Protection Pledge, Oracle was committed to paying its 
own way on energy.15  For example, for some sites, Oracle leverages a utility as our primary 
power source and negotiates several provisions that should result in rates going down, not up, 
such as:  
• Oracle’s contract directly funds the capital required for any and all new or upgraded 
generation or transmission required to support our load;  
• Oracle funds any special technology required to protect the public grid from any load 
swings from our technology, i.e., enhanced uninterruptible power supply or battery 
storage;  
• Oracle is first in line for curtailment in the event of an outage on the grid to ensure the 
general public has preferential treatment;  
 
11 OpenAI, Oracle, and SoftBank expand Stargate with five new AI data center sites, OPENAI, 
https://openai.com/index/five-new-stargate-sites (updated Oct. 22, 2025).  
12 Josh Pitcock, AI Data Centers Create Local Jobs: What That Really Means for Our 
Communities, ORACLE BLOG (Mar. 9, 2026), 
https://www.oracle.com/news/announcement/blog/ai-data-centers-create-local-jobs-2026-03-09.  
13 See Ratepayer Pledge Fact Sheet; Ratepayer Protection Pledge. 
14 See Ratepayer Protection Pledge. 
15 See Oracle Community Commitment Blog; Ratepayer Pledge Fact Sheet. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
• There are very limited penalties for the utility in the event of an outage, and often Oracle 
is still paying for a minimum power charge even if we are not receiving power; and  
• Excess, unutilized power can be used for the broader grid demand in periods of high 
demand.   
When managed correctly, all of the above should result in Oracle not only funding resources that 
we utilize for our own sites, but also upgrades to aged and undersized resources for public 
consumption.  For other sites, Oracle builds on site power generation that is fully dedicated to 
our site, and this aims to ensure no adverse effect the public utility grid or ratepayers.  In this 
scenario, 100% of capital, deployment, and operations are funded by Oracle and our partners in 
private arrangements.   
The public grid could benefit from these generation resources, given they are already 
funded resources and will often have excess, unutilized power.  Patchwork state regulation, long 
interconnection queues, and complex dynamics between transmission and generation operators 
complicates efforts to implement and integrate Oracle’s beneficial investments.  Modernizing the 
regulatory framework could allow large-load customers that self-generate electricity to more 
directly partner with utilities, transmission infrastructure owners, and others to make excess 
capacity available to the grid on commercial reasonable terms.  This would, in turn, benefit 
reliability and potentially reduce costs for other customers.  
Indeed, these infrastructure upgrades can improve the resiliency and reliability of the 
power grid for all consumers connected to it, at a time when the nation’s electric grid is facing 
significant needs for systematic repair, replacement, and modernization.  Further, when possible, 
Oracle will make available backup generation resources at its data center sites to prevent 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
blackouts and power shortages.16  Oracle’s investments in the power grid thus help “ensure the 
reliability, resilience, and security of the electric power grid”17 for these communities. 
Oracle will continue developing and deploying the infrastructure needed for the United 
States to maintain its leadership in AI and win the global AI race.  Data centers are the 
foundation of AI technologies, and operating these sites requires modernizing and expanding the 
supply of the energy grids to which they connect.  Oracle remains committed to ensuring that 
American consumers are protected from shouldering the costs of investments in the power grid 
and using these investments to benefit the public at large by bolstering the resilience and 
reliability of the grid. 
Respectfully Submitted,  
 
ORACLE AMERICA, INC.  
 
By:  
/s/ Peter Lord  
 
  
Peter Lord  
Senior Vice President, Strategic Initiatives  
901 F Street, NW  
Suite 800  
April 30, 2026  
 
 
 
 
Washington, DC 20004 
 
16 See Ratepayer Protection Pledge. 
17 Executive Order, Strengthening the Reliability and Security of the United States Electric Grid, 
THE WHITE HOUSE (Apr. 8, 2025), https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-
actions/2025/04/strengthening-the-reliability-and-security-of-the-united-states-electric-grid.  
