--- PAGE 1 ---
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
BEFORE THE  
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System  
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
Reply Comments of Paige Lambermont of the Competitive Enterprise Institute 
I appreciate this opportunity to provide feedback on the Secretary of Energy’s advance 
notice of proposed rulemaking. Specifically, I am providing reply comments that support the 
comments of the Cato Institute’s Travis Fisher.1 
I am a Research Fellow in the Center for Energy and Environment at the Competitive 
Enterprise Institute (CEI). CEI is a policy and research organization dedicated to advancing the 
principles of free markets and limited government.  
I support Mr. Fisher’s request in his comment to enable Consumer Regulated Electricity 
(CRE). In doing so, this would allow a parallel path to power access for large electricity loads 
that is timely, orderly, and non-discriminatory. As a result, this would help to support the goal of 
the rulemaking, by providing an alternative option to customers, including those large load 
customers considered in this rulemaking. 
CRE presents an alternative option for those whose electricity needs cannot be readily 
met by the Bulk Power System or who feel they can better meet their own power needs. CRE 
primarily requires state level policy change to allow companies to work with power suppliers 
independent of the existing power grid. This is done by amending the enabling legislation of 
state utility regulators (generally a public service commission or public utilities commission) to 
define CRE and exempt it from the regulation.2  
 
1 Travis Fisher, Cato Institute, Comments on Proposed ANOPR:  Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System, Docket No. RM26-4-000, (November 21, 2025) 
https://elibrary.ferc.gov/eLibrary/ﬁlelist?accession_number=20251124-
5131&optimized=false&sid=1d906938-95f3-4e29-a1c4-2835d052f554. 
2 Glen Lyons, “Consumer Regulated Electricity: The Path to Faster, Reliable Power Solutions?,” Data Center 
Knowledge, July 2, 2024, https://www.datacenterknowledge.com/energy-power-supply/consumer-regulated-
electricity-the-path-to-faster-reliable-power-solutions-. 

--- PAGE 2 ---
Although state policy change is what is needed to allow these arrangements to occur, 
regulatory clarity from DOE and FERC would make clear that CRE utilities are separate from 
the Bulk Power System and should be treated as such. Mr. Fisher’s comment is correct to ask for 
this clarification.  
Respectfully submitted, 
Paige Lambermont  
Dated: December 5, 2025 
Research Fellow 
Center for Energy and Environment 
Competitive Enterprise Institute 
1310 L Street N.W., 7th Floor 
Washington, D.C. 20005 
 
 
