--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
STATE OF WASHINGTON 
 
 
 
BEFORE THE  
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Comments for FERC ANOPR on Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
 
COMMENTS OF THE  
WASHINGTON UTILITIES AND TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION 
 
The Washington Utilities and Transportation Commission (UTC) provides these 
comments in response to the Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANOPR) issued on 
October 27, 2025. The UTC notes that establishing a standardized, national process for large load 
interconnection may provide benefits for Washington utility customers. Any benefits of a 
standardized process must be weighed against the significant risks that blurring the jurisdictional 
boundaries of regulation could compromise Washington State’s own energy policy goals, 
negatively impact affordability, compromise reliability, and miss opportunities for states to 
develop new solutions to large load interconnection issues. 
Many questions remain about implementation of the proposals in the ANOPR, and more 
details are needed to understand how the proposed reforms would be implemented. For example, 
despite the assurances in the ANOPR not to impact state’s rights, the ANOPR policies may 
conflict with the ongoing work of Washington’s Data Center Working Group established by 
Governor Ferguson’s Executive Order 25-05.  
With these concerns noted, the UTC sees value in the ANOPR process to identify 
practices that value and incentivize new flexible loads interconnecting to the system. 
Specifically, we encourage the development of principles of how to prioritize load flexibility in 
interconnection processes. These principles can be applied in state processes across the country 
to further develop policies that will advance interconnection of large loads while protecting 
reliability and affordability. Similarly, the UTC sees value in identifying principles around load 
forecasting and load certainty to address the unique challenges that large loads are presenting to 
system planners and grid operators. 

--- PAGE 2 ---
Comments for FERC ANOPR on Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission 
System Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Page 2 
States are well positioned to understand the circumstances inherent in each project that 
seeks to interconnect to the grid, and how various strategies might impact that project. 
Understanding context and local nuances is necessary to implement policies within our 
jurisdiction, specifically to ensure alignment with state law and state specific resource adequacy 
and energy needs. For example, the process and timing for dispatchable and curtailable 
interconnection would need to align with Washington’s Climate Commitment Act and Clean 
Energy Transformation Act as highlighted by the findings and recommendations adopted by 
Washington state’s Data Center Working Group  
State law gives Washington’s utility regulators direct oversight over retail rates, cost-
allocation practices, and distribution level reliability impacts (RCW 80.28 and RCW 80.04). 
Large loads often require upgrades to both the transmission and distribution system and utilities 
must demonstrate that new load will not be served by imposing undue costs on existing 
customers. Cost recovery is ultimately approved by the UTC, which is responsible for ensuring 
retail rates are just, reasonable, and non-discriminatory. A federal interconnection process 
focused on transmission access may not maintain the essential role that the UTC (and other state 
commissions) play in ensuring fair retail electric rates that are free from cross subsidy. 
Consistent with these concerns, the UTC supports the recent resolution adopted by the National 
Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners on this issue (Resolution Urging the Federal 
Energy Regulatory Commission to Preserve and Affirm State Retail Regulatory Jurisdiction in its 
Large Load Interconnection Proceeding). The resolution identifies the importance of state-
federal collaboration on issues relating to large load interconnections, and the need to continue to 
respect the jurisdictional boundaries among local, state, and federal regulation. This is 
particularly true in Washington where large loads can interconnect to the transmission networks 
associated with state regulated utilities, FERC-jurisdictional utilities, and non-FERC 
jurisdictional utilities, including the Bonneville Power Administration. Ulitmately, state and 
federal regulators and non-jurisdictional entities have an interest in developing lasting solutions 
to meet the growing demands on our energy systems, while keeping electricity affordable. 
The UTC appreciates the opportunity to comment on this ANOPR, noting that our 
comments are an initial response to a proposal that could significantly modify the electricity 
sector’s regulatory responsibilities. There are critical issues to discuss, and an opportunity to 
identify principles about load flexibility and cost allocation that involve nuance and complexity 

--- PAGE 3 ---
Comments for FERC ANOPR on Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission 
System Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Page 3 
with the ultimate goal of maintaining a system of cooperative federalism that best protects retail 
electric customers. The UTC is concerned that the timelines proposed in this ANOPR do not 
afford the time necessary to get to the best answer for all. We encourage FERC to take the time 
to collaborate in developing a productive final rule that charts a path forward that facilitates large 
load growth, preserves state jurisdiction, and protects all customers. 
 
 
Respectfully submitted this November 21, 2025. 
 
WASHINGTON UTILITIES AND TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BRIAN J. RYBARIK, Chair 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANN E. RENDAHL, Commissioner 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MILT DOUMIT, Commissioner 
