--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate 
) 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
Transmission System  
 
 
 
) 
 
REPLY COMMENTS OF THE VIRGINIA STATE  
CORPORATION COMMISSION  
 
 
On October 23, 2025, the Secretary of the Department of Energy (“Secretary”) directed the 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC” or the “Commission”) to consider an Advance 
Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) regarding the interconnection of large loads to the 
interstate transmission system and issue a final action by April 30, 2026.1  On October 27, 2025, 
the Commission issued a Notice Inviting Comments on the proposed ANOPR. 
More than 150 parties, including the Virginia State Corporation Commission (“VSCC”), 
filed initial comments in this proceeding.  While the comments expressed a wide range of 
perspectives, two common themes pervaded most of them: (1) large loads should be interconnected 
reliably and as efficiently as possible;2 and (2) FERC should narrowly-tailor any rulemaking 
proposal resulting from the ANOPR to avoid potential litigation and unnecessary delays that could 
result from asserting jurisdiction over large loads where it has not previously done so.3  Along the 
 
1 Secretary of Energy, Secretary of Energy’s Direction that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Initiate 
Rulemaking Procedures and Proposal Regarding the Interconnection of Large Loads Pursuant to the Secretary’s 
Authority Under Section 403 of the Department of Energy Organization Act (Oct. 23, 2025) (“ANOPR”). 
2 See, e.g., Comments of the Data Center Coalition at 2-3; Comments of ENGIE North America, Inc. (“ENGIE 
Comments”) at 2-3. 
3 See, e.g., Initial Comments of the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners; Initial Comments of 
the Organization of MISO States, Inc.; Comments of the North Carolina Utilities Commission. 
 

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
 
 
same vein, a large number of commenters (representing a variety of interests, such as state 
commissions, transmission owners, data centers, public power, and RTOs/ISOs) emphasized that 
focusing on existing dockets (e.g., co-location) or existing proposals (e.g., SPP’s High Impact 
Large Load Generation Addition proposal) will actually lead to the most meaningful outcomes in 
terms of successfully ensuring more rapid and reliable interconnections of large loads nationwide.  
The VSCC agrees.  Thus, pursuant to Notice Inviting Comments, the VSCC respectfully 
submits with these limited reply comments an approach that it believes should address the 
concerns of all camps. 
I. 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
As noted in its initial comments, the VSCC agrees that large data center loads need to be 
interconnected quickly and provided reliable service at affordable rates. In those comments, the 
VSCC encouraged the Commission to use this rulemaking proceeding to:  
o Develop a set of Commission-mandated minimum standards for large load 
interconnections while allowing transmission owners to continue to manage large 
load interconnection queues with direct oversight of their state regulatory 
commissions.  
o Direct the transmission owners would file with the Commission verification that a 
large load interconnection Tariff meeting such requirements has been filed with 
their state regulatory authority.  
o Enable the accelerated interconnection of large loads that are willing to bring their 
own generation or to be co-located with generation by creating a fast-track 
generator interconnection queue for those verified generation resources.4  
 
4 Initial Comments of the Virginia State Corporation Commission at 2-3. 
 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
 
 
The VSCC noted that this cooperative, shared state and federal jurisdictional approach 
would ensure that a minimum set of standards is employed nationwide and helps accelerate large 
load interconnections without disrupting existing processes.  The VSCC has developed just such 
a set of standards, which is attached hereto as an Appendix).  
Commission adoption of these standards as part of a cooperative federalism approach that 
leaves interconnection to transmission owners subject to state regulatory oversight will satisfy 
those commenters concerned with the legal durability of a Final Rule premised on unprecedented 
jurisdictional change, as states would remain responsible for oversight of load interconnections 
(with a floor for such regulation established by the Commission).  These standards should also 
satisfy those commenters concerned with the speed of interconnection, as establishing a 
nationwide, minimum set of standards should expedite interconnection queues, especially if 
coupled with an expedited regional process for co-located or other hybrid load. 
This would allow the Commission to focus on the aspect of interconnection delays that is 
unquestionably within its jurisdiction – expediting the addition of needed generation to serve 
such load, through mechanisms like PJM’s recent Reliability Resource Initiative or other queue 
reform.  The VSCC also encourages the Commission to schedule a technical conference in this 
proceeding, to hear from a diverse range of perspectives, including state regulators.  The 
technical conference would be an ideal means to further develop the regulatory principles set 
forth in the Appendix. 
  

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
 
 
II. 
COMMENTS 
As the Secretary’s Letter and the ANOPR concede, the Commission has never asserted 
jurisdiction over interconnection of load, large or otherwise.5  Load interconnection has rather 
been the exclusive province under the Federal Power Act of state regulators, such as the VSCC. 
Recognizing this, a range of commenters expressed concern with the Commission’s assertion of 
jurisdiction, which both deprives states of the opportunity to address large load interconnection 
issues (which more than half the states are already doing), while subjecting any Final Rule in this 
proceeding to legal challenge under the Federal Power Act. 
The approach described by the VSCC in its initial comments would ameliorate these 
concerns by maintaining existing state jurisdiction over interconnection of load, while allowing 
the Commission to ensure that the states are exercising this jurisdiction subject to minimum 
baselines that expedite interconnection as much as possible.6  The Commission could further 
accelerate these processes by requiring an expedited interconnection queue for hybrid 
interconnections or other arrangements where large loads bring their own generation. 
Many of the parties expressing support for the ANOPR’s principles appear to be 
primarily concerned with perceived delays in the current system.7  However, merely changing 
the regulator of such interconnections from state agencies to the Commission and the queue 
operator from transmission owners to PJM will not accelerate these interconnections if the 
reason for such delays is structural (i.e. lack of available generation or delayed transmission 
 
5 Secretary’s Letter at 1; ANOPR at Section IV.  
6 Many of the Commenters supporting Commission action also support maintaining a role for the states in this 
process.  DCC Comments at 4 (“[State] engagement and support will be critical to the success of any final 
framework.”). 
7 7 ENGIE Comments at 2 (“access to electricity has become a critical bottleneck for data centers, and other large 
load customers.”). 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
 
 
upgrades).  By implementing a minimum set of standards designed to remove bottlenecks in the 
interconnection queue itself, interconnections can be expedited while not disturbing existing 
state-federal jurisdictional boundaries. 
The states are acting now to examine large load interconnections and ensure that such 
loads are interconnected quickly and provided reliable service at affordable rates.  For example, 
on November 25, the VSCC issued an order in a rate review proceeding for Dominion that both 
created a new rate class for large loads with minimum contractual conditions and required 
Dominion to file with the VSCC its new large load interconnection queue process, along with 
supporting testimony, in a separate proceeding.8  The VSCC found in that order that “the public 
interest would be supported by a transparent process wherein the rules for the interconnection 
process of larger loads are subject to examination and approval in a formal proceeding.”9  
Recognizing the urgency of the matter, the VSCC directed that this filing be made no later than 
February 2, 2026.  The Commission should act in this proceeding to support these state actions, 
not bar them. 
States are better equipped than the RTOs to address these matters efficiently.  PJM 
recently conducted an “expedited” process (the Critical Issue Fast Path process) to attempt to 
address large load addition issues, only to have its membership reject each of the dozen or so 
proposals.  Furthermore, when the Commission acted squarely within its existing jurisdiction in 
May 2024 in Order No. 1920 to address issues related to long-range transmission planning, the 
order merely initiated a process that will not, under current timelines, be completed until at least 
 
8 Application of Virginia Electric and Power Company For a 2025 biennial review of the rates, terms and conditions 
for the provision of generation, distribution and transmission services pursuant to VA Code section 56-585.1, Case 
No. PUR-2025-00058, Final Order (Nov. 25, 2025). https://www.scc.virginia.gov/docketsearch/DOCS/89g601!.PDF 
9 Id. at 22. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
 
 
2027.  If the goal of this proceeding is to accelerate interconnection of large loads, the most 
efficient means to do so would be to empower states to act, subject to a minimum set of 
standards established by the Commission. 
The VSCC notes that this does not mean the Commission should do nothing to expedite 
load interconnection.  In addition to directing expedited queues for certain limited types of 
interconnection, the Commission should act within its existing jurisdiction to accelerate 
interconnection of generation needed to support load.  As the Commission has noted in several 
PJM proceedings, the generation interconnection process desperately needs to be reformed.10  
PJM has reformed its queue process and implemented a one-time effort to allow shovel-ready 
projects to jump the queue, both of which were approved by the Commission.11  The 
Commission should direct PJM to do more, including additional processes like the RRI.  
Removing the causes of generation interconnection backlogs would go far in accelerating load 
interconnections. 
Finally, because such a wide range of commenters have submitted feedback to the 
Commission in this proceeding, the VSCC believes that the record in this proceeding would 
greatly benefit from a technical conference that solicits input from all sectors, including state 
regulators.  A technical conference would allow the Commission to understand the issues raised 
 
10 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Docket No. ER22-2110, Order Accepting Tariff Revisions, 181 FERC ¶ 61,162 
(Nov. 29, 2022); PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Docket No. ER24-2045, Order on Compliance, 192 FERC ¶ 61,077 
(July 24, 2025). 
11 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Docket No. ER22-2110, Order Accepting Tariff Revisions, 181 FERC ¶ 61,162 
(Nov. 29, 2022); PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Order Accepting Tariff Revisions, 190 FERC ¶ 61,084 (Feb. 11, 
2025). 
 

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
 
 
in this proceeding, while developing the minimum set of standards to be applied by state 
regulators under the cooperative federalism approach described herein. 
III. 
 CONCLUSION 
Wherefore, the VSCC respectfully requests that the Commission, in any eventual NOPR 
issued in this proceeding, maintain the existing shared jurisdiction with the states and set forth a 
list of principles for load interconnection to be implemented by utilities in their state-
jurisdictional tariffs.  The VSCC further requests that the Commission schedule a technical 
conference in this proceeding to fully develop a record for future action. 
Respectfully submitted, 
/s Frederick D. Ochsenhirt 
Frederick D. Ochsenhirt 
Legal Advisor to the Commission – Federal 
Regulatory Affairs 
Virginia State Corporation Commission 
P.O. Box 1197 
Richmond, Virginia 23218 
(804) 371-9671 
 
Dated: December 5, 2025 
 
 

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 
 
 
APPENDIX – SUGGESTED PARAMETERS FOR STATE TARIFFS 
 
The Commission should adopt only necessary reforms that are tailored to preserve state 
jurisdiction while accelerating the timely and orderly interconnection of large loads to the 
transmission system. Commission action should be judicious and carefully calibrated to retain 
and support state jurisdiction, recognizing that the rulemaking should only apply to 
interconnection to the transmission system and not to “facilities used in local distribution or for 
the transmission of electric energy in intrastate commerce, or over facilities for the transmission 
of electric energy consumed wholly by the transmitter.”12 State regulators need the ability to 
balance “economic development associated with large loads with the protection of retail 
customers” and must retain the authority to ensure “resource adequacy, reliability, and 
affordability for retail customers.”13   
 
The two actions outlined below, are tailored to provide appropriate, consistent minimum 
terms and conditions for transmission owners to implement as they manage the interconnection 
of large loads to the transmission system. This includes both reforms to the standard 
interconnection queue as well as the requirement to establish a voluntary fast track process for 
loads that can demonstrate system impact mitigation. 
 
- 
Minimum Terms for FERC Oversight of Large Load Interconnection to the 
Transmission System: The Commission should establish principles governing 
the minimum necessary terms and conditions to be included in state large load 
interconnection tariffs. 
 
- 
Fast Track for Loads that Voluntarily Bring System Impact Mitigation: 
FERC should establish the criteria for eligible large load interconnections to 
voluntarily enter a separate queue when they can demonstrate system impact 
mitigation through co-location, curtailment, or a combination of both. Those loads 
should be eligible for a streamlined and accelerated interconnection pathway that 
is managed by the transmission owner.  
 
 
12 16 U.S.C. § 824(b) 
 
13 NARUC Resolution EL-1, Resolution Urging the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to Preserve and Affirm 
State Retail Regulatory Jurisdiction in its Large Load Interconnection Proceeding. 

--- PAGE 9 ---
9 
 
 
A. 
MINIMUM TERMS FOR STATE OVERSIGHT OF LARGE LOAD 
INTERCONNECTION TO THE TRANSMISSION SYSTEM  
 
The Commission should establish minimum standards to ensure the timely and orderly 
interconnection of large loads. The transmission owner will be responsible for implementation of 
these minimum standards to provide transparency and consistency across markets. The 
Commission should establish a process through which transmission owners will file state-
approved tariffs that meet these minimum standards or file such tariffs with the Commission in 
the event no state-approved tariff pathway is available. The minimum standards should address 
three core areas: 1) project readiness; 2) commercial readiness; and 3) withdrawal and/or 
reduction. 
1. Project Readiness 
 
The Commission should define specific project readiness criteria for transmission owners 
to implement in their state-approved tariffs when considering a large load interconnection. 
Project readiness criteria should be designed to support a first-ready, first-served approach to 
large load transmission interconnection. At a minimum, transmission owners should assess site 
control and documentation of permitting in assessing readiness. 
 
2. Commercial Readiness 
 
The Commission should also define minimum commercial readiness criteria to reduce the 
likelihood that speculative projects will slow the transmission owner’s load interconnection 
review process. Commercial readiness payments, such as credit and collateral obligations, should 
be designed to appropriately balance real, customer-specific risk without deterring investment. 
Establishing calibrated commercial obligations throughout the process will also help to 
discourage nonviable projects from remaining in the queue.   
 
3. Withdrawal and/or Capacity Reduction 
 
The state large load tariffs should also require withdrawal or capacity reduction 
procedures to ensure that projects that inevitably need to exit the queue or adjust 
injection/withdrawal from the system can do so with minimal disruption to other projects and the 
orderly interconnection of loads. Such criteria should be designed such that the project that exits 
or reduces its capacity obligation incurs some level of financial risk to reduce speculation, 
including financial penalties and reassignment of capacity. 

--- PAGE 10 ---
10 
 
 
B.  
FAST TRACK FOR LOADS WITH SYSTEM IMPACT MITIGATION  
The Commission could establish in its large load interconnection principles a voluntary 
fast-track pathway available to large loads that can demonstrate that their system impacts are 
materially mitigated through some combination of 1) hybrid facilities where load is co-located 
with generation and/or storage and/or 2) curtailment commitments. These loads would be studied 
for interconnection as part of the transmission owner’s interconnection queue. However, a load 
cannot be simultaneously in the fast-track queue and in the standard load interconnection queue. 
These criteria would establish a floor for participation, and a state can authorize 
additional eligibility criteria for participation in the load interconnection fast-track queue. 
 
In conjunction with establishing, as part of any large load interconnection principles, a 
load interconnect fast-track, FERC should require transmission providers to implement a 
complementary generator interconnection queue fast-track.  This fast-track would allow verified 
generation resources associated with loads in the voluntary load fast-track pathway to be eligible 
for a separate or expedited generator interconnection queue study process. 
1. 
Hybrid facilities where load is co-located with generation and/or storage 
 
The ANOPR recognizes that “siting a large load near or at the same point of 
interconnection as a new generating facility could reduce the network upgrades needed to 
interconnect only the load or only the generating facility.” As a baseline metric for access to a 
streamlined review process, the hybrid facilities must be required to install the system protection 
facilities necessary to prevent unauthorized injections or withdrawals that exceed their respective 
rights.  
  
2.   
Load with curtailment commitments 
Projects seeking fast-track eligibility through curtailment commitments must demonstrate that 
they can reliably and predictably reduce their load upon instruction or through automated 
triggers, such that their maximum net impact on the transmission system is materially limited 
during critical operating conditions. As a baseline, the load must always be fully curtailment-
capable, with clearly defined maximum draw levels that apply during normal operations and 
stricter limits during reliability events.  
 
 

--- PAGE 11 ---
11 
 
 
3.  
A combination of co-location and curtailment 
Projects that use both co-located resources and curtailment commitments must show that 
their combined mitigation strategy reliably limits the project’s net impact on the transmission 
system during both normal operations and system-stress conditions. The Commission should 
establish criteria requiring that the co-located generation or storage meaningfully offset the 
facility’s load under typical operating conditions, while curtailment commitments must ensure 
additional reductions during peak or contingency scenarios when the co-located resource alone 
cannot fully neutralize transmission impacts.  
The Commission should permit states with tariffs or other contractual terms that include 
additional mitigation options to be eligible for this hybrid approach.  
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 12 ---
12 
 
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
 
I hereby certify that the foregoing has been served in accordance with 18 C.F.R. Section 
385.2010 upon each person designated on the official service list compiled by the Secretary in this 
proceeding.  
 
/s Frederick D. Ochsenhirt 
Frederick D. Ochsenhirt 
Legal Advisor to the Commission – Federal 
Regulatory Affairs 
Virginia State Corporation Commission 
P.O. Box 1197 
Richmond, Virginia 23218 
(804) 371-9671 
 
Dated at Richmond, Virginia this 5th day of December, 2025.   
 
