--- PAGE 1 ---
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System  
 
 
) 
) 
) 
) 
 
 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
 
COMMENTS OF DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION 
 
Duke Energy Corporation, on behalf of its public utility affiliates (collectively, 
“Duke Energy”), submits these initial comments in response to the Notice Inviting 
Comments and Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) issued by the 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC” or “Commission”) on October 27, 
2025.1 The ANOPR proposes potential reforms to standardize the process for 
interconnecting large loads to the transmission system and sets forth fourteen proposed 
principles for such reforms. The proposed reforms are targeted at ensuring the timely, 
orderly, and non-discriminatory interconnection of large loads, particularly artificial 
intelligence (AI) data centers, which are seeking to connect to the transmission system at 
an unprecedented pace and volume.2   
Reliable and affordable energy is a critical factor in capturing economic 
development opportunities and securing a competitive advantage for the United States in 
the race for AI innovation   Across the communities it serves, Duke Energy has been 
working to balance the protection of existing customers with the speed to power that 
 
1 Notice Inviting Comments, Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate Transmission System, Docket 
No. RM26-4-000. 
2 Secretary of Energy’s Direction that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Initiate Rulemaking 
Procedures and Proposal Regarding the Interconnection of Large Loads Pursuant to the Secretary’s 
Authority Under Section 403 of the Department of Energy Organization Act, Letter dated Oct. 23, 2025.  

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
 
large load customers expect. Particularly in the Southeast where interest from large load 
customers has been the greatest, Duke Energy has been successful in adapting existing 
processes to meet the moment, signing agreements to serve approximately 3 gigawatts 
(GWs) of large load data center customers in 2025 alone.  
As the Commission considers the ANOPR’s principles, Duke Energy encourages 
the Commission to fully evaluate what is working and what is not when it comes to 
interconnection of large loads. Although interconnection study processes are often 
perceived as barriers to speed, several other factors impact the timeline to connect and 
reliably serve large load customers, including supply chains, siting issues, fuel supply, 
and available generation. While Duke Energy continues to successfully manage these 
other factors to provide speed to power through creative solutions, these factors remain 
critical contributors to timely interconnection and service to large load customers 
industry-wide and are not solvable through standardized large load interconnection 
procedures and agreements. To the extent FERC can identify specific and concrete 
problems within its statutory authority, FERC should narrowly tailor any proposed 
reforms to solving those specific problems. To attempt through this rulemaking 
proceeding to solve for theoretical problems, edge case hypotheticals, or problems 
beyond FERC’s statutory purview will introduce a quagmire of jurisdictional issues and 
disputes, thorny implementation details, unintended consequences, and lengthy, litigious 
compliance processes that would impede more timely interconnection of large load 
customers. Any reforms that FERC pursues must be catalysts, not quicksand. Duke 
Energy offers these comments to help the Commission avoid the quicksand.  

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
 
To start, FERC should look to support existing processes that are working to 
efficiently and reliably interconnect large load customers today. To the extent FERC 
identifies reforms that would improve those processes and proposes new requirements, 
those standardized requirements should apply only where customers take unbundled 
transmission service. Imposing federal requirements on bundled retail service will create 
legal and operational uncertainty and conflicts, which will cause delays and thwart the 
goals of the ANOPR.  
Should FERC decide to adopt standardized large load interconnection 
requirements for customers taking unbundled transmission service, standardized study 
deposits, readiness requirements, and withdrawal penalties will help to deter speculative 
requests. However, the effort to standardize large load study procedures will require the 
Commission to address and resolve numerous other implementation details and 
foreseeable issues from the interaction of a new standardized large load interconnection 
study process and existing generator interconnection and transmission study processes. 
FERC should consider whether the time and resources required for that standardization 
effort will in fact promote the speed to interconnection that is needed to meet this 
moment.  
If FERC elects to adopt standardized large load interconnection procedures and 
agreements, another way for FERC to tailor the rules is to adopt reasonable applicability 
criteria targeted at significantly higher megawatt (MW) loads and loads with other 
features that are most likely to have reliability impacts on the bulk electric system. Duke 
Energy recommends that, for purposes of this rulemaking, FERC define large load as 
new loads greater than 300 MW (but, in the alternative, no lower than 100 MW), that 

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
 
require interconnection at 100 kilovolt (kV) or above. As discussed below, we also 
recommend FERC apply any final rule in this proceeding only to those loads with certain 
NERC-identified characteristics that present added reliability risks.  
As discussed in Section III, the ANOPR’s proposal for coordination of load and 
generation requests, including hybrid facilities, warrants a more thorough assessment of 
the significant implementation challenges and reliability implications. To start, Duke 
Energy recommends that hybrid facilities be defined as load and generation behind a 
common point of interconnection and warns that broader definitions (such as load “near” 
generation) would increase complexity, introduce reliability risk, and undermine the goal 
of timely interconnection. Duke Energy also urges FERC to ensure that transmission 
providers are permitted to study all load, generation, and hybrid facilities based on their 
full operating characteristics. However, Duke Energy is open to further evaluation of 
conditional, time-limited interconnection services as potential bridge solutions to 
accelerate large load integration without compromising grid reliability.  
Lastly, in response to the ANOPR’s eighth principle, instead of 100 percent direct 
assignment of network upgrade costs to large load customers, Duke Energy recommends 
a refundable up-front funding pricing methodology similar to the methodology required 
by Order No. 20033 for non-independent transmission providers pricing of generator 
network upgrade costs.  
 
3 See Standardization of Generator Interconnection Agreements & Procs., Order No. 2003, 104 FERC ¶ 
61,103, at P 22 (2003) (“Order No. 2003”), order on reh’g, Order No. 2003-A, 106 FERC ¶ 61,220 (2004) 
(“Order No. 2003-A”), order on reh 'g, Order No. 2003-B, 109 FERC ¶ 61,287 (2004), order on reh 'g, 
Order No. 2003-C, 111 FERC ¶ 61,401 (2005), aff'd sub nom. Nat’l Ass’n of Regulatory Utility 
Commissioners v. FERC, 475 F.3d 1277 (D.C. Cir. 2007). 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
 
Duke Energy supports the Commission’s careful consideration of these important 
issues and looks forward to further engagement to identify if there are meaningful 
reforms to help accelerate interconnection of these large loads that are critical for the 
future of American innovation.  
I. 
Any Standardized Large Load Interconnection Procedures Should Be 
Designed to Support Large Load Interconnection Processes That Are 
Working Efficiently.  
A. 
In Duke Energy’s Service Territories, Existing Retail Processes Are 
Working to Efficiently Process Data Center Service Inquiries and 
Implement Solutions to Provide Service in a Timely Manner.  
Duke Energy’s franchised public utilities collectively own approximately 31,700 
miles of transmission facilities, more than 55,100 MW of generation, and serve 
approximately 8.6 million customers in six different states—Indiana, Ohio, Kentucky, 
North Carolina, South Carolina, and Florida, and in both RTO/ISO and non-RTO/ISO 
regions. Like utilities across the country, Duke Energy has seen dramatic increases in 
inquiries for electric service across the regions it serves, particularly in the Southeast 
region. In the Southeast, where Duke Energy’s utilities continue to operate as vertically 
integrated utilities, customers are attracted by the utility’s ability to plan and execute on 
all investments needed for delivery of reliable power, from generation, transmission, and 
distribution. For example, in the Carolinas, Duke Energy’s pipeline of active inquiries as 
of October 2025 was made up of 420 projects totaling 46 GW.4 While roughly a third of 
the 420 projects are data centers, the data center projects represent more than 85 percent, 
roughly 40 GW, of the total 46 GW.5 Electric demand is strong in the Midwest as well, 
 
4 Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC, et al., Technical Conference Presentation Materials at 4, NCUC Docket 
No. E-100, Sub 208 (filed Oct. 10, 2025) available at 
https://starw1.ncuc.gov/NCUC/ViewFile.aspx?Id=86ae7250-53a6-4b81-ad84-a70ed8b5c6f4.  
5 Id.  

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
 
where Duke Energy’s utilities have successfully partnered with state legislators, 
regulators, and community leaders to attract large data center campuses and advanced 
manufacturing facilities. Through site readiness programs, Duke Energy also continues to 
prepare high-potential business and industrial sites for economic development investment 
and to coordinate with state and local governments in marketing them nationwide to 
companies looking to start, expand, or relocate their operations. These programs have led 
to billions of dollars of investment in the communities Duke Energy serves.  
Duke Energy has developed a structured and disciplined approach to processing 
large load inquiries for electric service that balances the protection of existing customers, 
the economic development opportunities presented by this increased demand, and the 
speed to interconnection that large load customers, especially data centers, desire. For 
example, Duke Energy has incorporated into its retail large load interconnection process 
non-refundable study fees and information requirements to minimize speculative projects. 
Duke Energy has also adopted contracting practices for Electric Service Agreements with 
large loads that incorporate several protections for existing customers, including:  
• Minimum contract term lengths; 
• Minimum billing demand requirements;  
• Termination liquidated damages or exit fees;  
• Security posting requirements, related to the customer’s financial 
obligations; and 
• Refundable capital advance delivery related to the cost of interconnection 
facilities necessary to serve the customer site. 
In addition, due to near-term resource planning sensitivities, Duke Energy has 
incorporated temporary curtailment provisions into new retail Electric Service 
Agreements to provide limited-term operational flexibility until new resources are placed 
into service. Working through these existing state processes and supported by 

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
 
constructive state energy policies and regulations, Duke Energy has announced service 
agreements for data center customers totaling approximately 3 GW in just this past year. 
Duke Energy expects that most projects signed this year will be interconnected by 2027.  
Duke Energy has also announced increases to its five-year capital plan (2026-
2030), up to $105 billion, and projects 13 GW of capacity additions to its system over the 
same timeframe. Duke Energy believes these goals are achievable within the current 
regulatory framework for load interconnection.  
B. 
Standardized Large Load Interconnection Procedures Should Only 
Apply Where Transmission Service Is Unbundled.  
Duke Energy shares the goal of timely, orderly, and non-discriminatory 
interconnection of large loads, and as outlined above, Duke Energy has evolved its retail 
interconnection processes and agreements to address the unique challenges and 
opportunities presented by large loads. To preserve these processes that are working 
efficiently and avoid delays caused by transitioning to new processes, if the Commission 
elects to adopt new pro forma large load interconnection procedures and agreements, 
Duke Energy strongly recommends that the Commission only apply those new 
procedures and agreements where transmission service is provided to customers as an 
unbundled product.  
Consistent with its findings in Order No. 888,6 where it chose not to apply its 
regulations to bundled retail sales, the Commission should find here that (1) it is not 
 
6 See Promoting Wholesale Competition Through Open Access Non-Discriminatory Transmission Servs. by 
Pub. Utils.; Recovery of Stranded Costs by Pub. Utils. & Transmitting Utils., Order No. 888, FERC Stats. 
& Regs. ¶ 31,036 (1996), order on reh’g, Order No. 888-A, FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,048, order on reh’g, 
Order No. 888-B, 81 FERC ¶ 61,248 (1997), order on reh’g, Order No. 888-C, 82 FERC ¶ 61,046 (1998), 
aff'd in relevant part sub nom. Transmission Access Policy Study Grp. v. FERC, 225 F.3d 667 (D.C. Cir. 
2000), aff'd sub nom. New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1 (2002). 

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 
 
necessary to subject bundled retail service agreements to a standardized FERC process 
because there is no evidence that existing state processes for serving bundled retail load 
are failing to ensure timely, orderly, and non-discriminatory transmission access and (2) 
subjecting bundled retail service agreements to a standardized FERC process would raise 
numerous difficult legal and jurisdictional issues.7   
The Electric Service Agreements described above are state-jurisdictional 
agreements that provide customers with a bundled retail service product. The Electric 
Service Agreements address the utility’s commitment to provide service on an agreed 
upon timeline and the customer’s obligation to pay for their fair share of energy, capacity, 
and transmission needs. As demonstrated by Duke Energy’s success in securing Electric 
Service Agreements with large load customers, its retail large load interconnection 
processes are working to meet the needs of customers. The time, effort, and resources to 
re-design those processes to conform with standardized FERC procedures would only 
cause delays, confusion, and uncertainty. Mandating a switch from an exclusively state-
jurisdictional process, which has a proven track record of integrating loads of all types in 
a holistic manner, to new processes with potentially overlapping and conflicting federal 
and state requirements would introduce complex legal and jurisdictional questions that 
would exacerbate delays and uncertainty. Unbundling of large load service agreements 
would raise complicated questions about whether and how federal or state regulations 
tied to curtailment commitments or resource adequacy affect planning and operational 
issues. For example, if FERC processes dictate a certain treatment of a large load’s 
commitment to curtail to avoid transmission network upgrades that is different from a 
 
7 See New York v. FERC, 535 U.S. 1, 25 (2002).  

--- PAGE 9 ---
9 
 
state’s treatment of a large load’s commitment to curtail to avoid generation capacity 
upgrades, the processes may be in conflict or create complicated planning and operational 
issues that would take time to work with FERC and state regulators to resolve, creating 
unnecessary delay. Today, where customers are served via bundled retail service 
agreements, needs of the transmission system and resource adequacy can be reconciled 
within one process and one bundled service agreement. To mandate all large loads be 
subject to FERC-jurisdictional interconnection procedures and agreements creates 
potential conflicts with state resource adequacy requirements, which will complicate and 
inevitably slow the interconnection of large load customers at this critical moment in 
time.  
Therefore, the goals of the ANOPR to ensure timely, orderly, and non-
discriminatory interconnection of large load would be best achieved by limiting the 
applicability of any FERC-jurisdictional pro forma procedures and agreements to large 
load customers receiving unbundled transmission service.8 If FERC decides not to limit 
large load interconnection rules to customers receiving unbundled transmission service, 
then the effective date and implementation timeline for any final rule in this proceeding 
must account for the substantial impact such a rule would have on state regulatory 
processes and constructs that are founded on the utility providing a bundled retail product 
and the added time it would take for utilities and states to adjust to the change.  
 
8 Absent the express exclusion of large load customers obtaining bundled retail service, the Commission 
should, at a minimum, allow utilities to demonstrate on compliance that existing state processes are 
consistent with or superior to any FERC-approved standard and grant to those utilities which satisfy that 
standard the ability to continue to operate according to those retail processes. 

--- PAGE 10 ---
10 
 
C. 
Appropriately Designed, Standardized Terms Can Help Deter 
Speculative Projects and Ensure Timely and Orderly Interconnection.  
1. 
Standardized study fees, readiness requirements, and customer 
information requirements can deter speculative projects that 
cause delays.  
Duke Energy supports the ANOPR’s fourth principle that “like generating 
facilities, load and hybrid facilities should be subject to standardized study deposits, 
readiness requirements, and withdrawal penalties.”9 Duke Energy agrees that 
appropriately designed study processes and information requirements can deter 
speculative projects and provide transmission providers with more useful and actionable 
information. In its existing retail large load interconnection processes, Duke Energy has 
adopted non-refundable study fees, site control verification requirements, and data center 
customer information requirements that align with the current version of NERC’s Data 
Center Information Collection questionnaire.10 As customers progress through the study 
phases, customers are also required to execute reimbursement agreements and provide 
capital advances for the costs of facilities necessary to serve the customer site. These 
features of Duke Energy’s existing processes have helped to mitigate speculative 
interconnection requests that can slow studies processes and, conversely, facilitate 
interconnection of ready projects.  
If FERC elects to adopt pro forma large load interconnection procedures and 
agreements, Duke Energy encourages FERC to incorporate study procedures and 
information requirements that will similarly mitigate speculative requests. In adopting 
 
9 ANOPR at P 21. 
10 See NERC Data Center Information Collection available at https://www.nerc.com/globalassets/who-we-
are/standing-committees/rstc/lmwg/data-center-information-collection-questionnaire.pdf.  

--- PAGE 11 ---
11 
 
standard customer requirements, FERC should recognize, as NERC has done through its 
Large Load Task Force, that evaluation of these large loads’ impact on reliability is 
evolving; therefore, the transmission provider must have the flexibility to quickly adjust 
its customer requirements to respond to newly identified risks and emergent needs. 
Standardized interconnection terms and conditions that are limited to procedural study 
requirements, such as adaptable data submission requirements for customers, study 
deposit rules, and readiness requirements to proceed with study procedures, can help 
support the goal of timely and orderly large load interconnection. However, attempting to 
standardize further aspects of the process would inhibit necessary improvements that are 
identified over time and impose a one-size-fits-all approach that is not workable and may 
result in reduced efficiency.  
2. 
Numerous implementation details would need to be addressed 
to provide clear rules about how standardized large load 
interconnection studies interact with other study processes.  
Standardized interconnection procedures and agreements can support timely and 
orderly interconnection only if they establish clear rules for coordination between the 
existing study processes for generator interconnection and transmission service requests 
and the new large load interconnection study. Clear procedures and rules that define how 
transmission providers should coordinate the existing study processes are necessary to 
avoid disputes that introduce uncertainty and cause delays. Because standardized load 
interconnection study procedures would be entirely new and may have their own study 
requirements and timelines independent from on-going generation cluster studies, there 
are numerous, complex details that will need to be addressed to ensure the 
interconnection of large loads does not frustrate or slow the interconnection of needed 
generation resources, or vice versa. For example, below is a non-exhaustive list of the 

--- PAGE 12 ---
12 
 
types of implementation details that would need to be resolved if the Commission were to 
adopt a new standardized study and interconnection process for large loads:  
• If large load studies are required to be conducted on a serial basis, but 
generator interconnection cluster studies are conducted annually, how 
should transmission providers align study assumptions between the two 
study processes to ensure appropriate network upgrades are identified and 
cost responsibility is appropriately assigned?  
• How should material modifications to load requests be handled and how 
should those modifications be coordinated with generator interconnection 
studies and restudies that had assumed the original large load request and 
cost assignment?  
• How should withdrawal penalty structures be adjusted to account for the 
impact a withdrawn load request may have on generator interconnection 
request(s), and vice versa?  
• How will load interconnection studies interact with affected system 
studies and coordination required for generator interconnection studies? 
• Should load interconnection studies with affected system impacts dictate 
the need for additional affected system studies, like the generator 
interconnection process? 
• Should contingent facilities be identified for load interconnection studies 
and should such contingent facilities for load interconnections include 
upgrades that have been identified and assigned to prior generator 
interconnections?  
• If a suspended generation project is responsible for a network upgrade that 
is also needed for a large load interconnection seeking to interconnect 
sooner, should the up-front cost responsibility for the upgrade be shifted to 
the large load customer or should the suspended generator be obligated to 
fund the upgrade to preserve its queue position?   
• Should large load interconnections also have commercial operation 
requirements like generators to ensure study results of coordinated load 
and generation remain valid? 
 
If FERC develops new pro forma large load customer interconnection procedures 
and agreements and, contrary to the caution above, applies them to customers taking 
bundled retail service, it must also clarify how those new FERC-jurisdictional study 
procedures interact with the existing requirements for studying transmission service 
requests and new Network Load of wholesale customers. This is particularly important to 
non-RTO regions where transmission providers, like Duke Energy’s affiliates in the 

--- PAGE 13 ---
13 
 
Southeast, are facing not only large load customer inquiries for bundled retail service but 
also requests to designate new Network Loads under current Open Access Transmission 
Tariff (OATT) rules. Where wholesale customers are designating new Network Loads, 
those loads may also be for large load customers, with the same customer potentially 
making inquiries to both Duke Energy and Duke Energy’s wholesale customer for retail 
service. Duke Energy has ensured that its existing retail large load interconnection 
processes and wholesale transmission service study process remain comparable in 
providing non-discriminatory transmission access to retail and wholesale customers alike. 
The creation of an entirely new large load interconnection process would need to be 
coordinated with the procedures and timelines for the existing transmission service study 
process in the OATT to ensure continued comparability between the processes and to not 
unfairly disadvantage a large load customer request under any newly-designed process 
compared to a large load customer receiving transmission service via a network 
integration transmission service request from a wholesale customer.  
To achieve the goal of accelerating the large load interconnection process, any 
standardized rule must clearly address these and other implementation details. Duke 
Energy cautions that it may take several years to develop (and potentially litigate) just 
and reasonable rules to address these issues. In the meantime, the development and 
transition to those new methodologies will take time and resources away from 
implementing the processes that exist today and are working and evolving to meet the 
needs of new large load customers while maintaining reliable, affordable service for 
existing customers.  

--- PAGE 14 ---
14 
 
3. 
Standardized terms for a FERC-jurisdictional large load 
interconnection process must be tailored to the study process 
and avoid conflicts with commercial terms for retail sales.  
FERC must also be cautious to avoid standardized interconnection terms and 
conditions that may overlap with commercial requirements which impact retail rates for 
power supply.11 As noted above, a critical tool to protecting existing customers is the 
ability to implement large load retail Electric Service Agreements that include minimum 
contract terms, minimum billing demands, termination fees, and security requirements. In 
Duke Energy’s experience, each large load interconnection request presents unique 
characteristics, load requirements, and operational considerations that require 
individualized assessment and planning. Utilities must continue to have the flexibility, 
subject to state utilities commission oversight, to adapt and tailor Electric Service 
Agreements to the unique needs of large load customers while also incorporating 
adequate customer protections and aligning terms with the specific planning and 
operational risks and requirements to serve large load customers, as guided by state 
regulatory requirements for reliability and resource adequacy. Standardized FERC-
jurisdictional large load interconnection procedures are more likely to be effective at 
ensuring timely, orderly, and non-discriminatory interconnection if the procedures and 
agreements are narrowly tailored to the technical requirements governing how the load 
moves through the study process and avoid overlap and conflict with commercial terms 
of retail sales. 
 
11 See, e.g., Tri-State Generation and Transmission Association, 193 FERC ¶ 61,070 at P 47 (rejecting a 
large load tariff that sought to dictate the terms and conditions of a retail sale, finding that “a regulation that 
‘specifies terms of sale at retail’ would exceed the Commission’s authority under the FPA”).  

--- PAGE 15 ---
15 
 
II. 
The Size Threshold for Large Load Should be Substantially Higher and Tied 
to Operating Characteristics to Avoid Unintended Consequences.  
The second principle of the ANOPR proposes that large load interconnection 
reforms should “apply to new loads greater than 20 MW and, for hybrid facilities, where 
load is greater than 20 MW.”12 The applicability criteria for any FERC-jurisdictional 
large load interconnection rules should be tailored to encompass those loads that will 
necessarily have significant impacts on the bulk electric system and, thus, require further 
study and evaluation to ensure transmission system reliability impacts are addressed. 
Although 20 MW was adopted by FERC as a dividing line between small and large 
generator interconnection requests, there is no reason to tether a new large load definition 
to the same threshold.  The proposed 20 MW threshold is well below the size of average 
large load requests and would, therefore, create unintended consequences and delays for a 
broader set of customers. 
With the objective of tailoring the threshold to those load requests most likely to 
have significant bulk electric system impacts, Duke Energy recommends a MW threshold 
of 300 MW or greater, but in no event lower than 100 MW, as well as a requirement that 
the load be connecting at 100 kV or above. Because large loads typically propose loads 
that ramp over time, the MW threshold should be measured by the large load’s final 
requested MW size at a single point of interconnection. In Duke Energy’s experience, the 
average load size of data center customers is around 500 MW; therefore, a MW threshold 
of 300 MW would be adequately sized to target the types of loads of interest in the 
ANOPR. Increasing the MW threshold would also avoid unintended consequences to 
 
12 ANOPR at P 19. 

--- PAGE 16 ---
16 
 
other loads that utilities have traditionally and successfully integrated without issue. A 
threshold of 20 MW would capture conventional larger loads including manufacturing, 
commercial, and other industrial loads, which can average around 50 MW in size. Duke 
Energy has been successful with reliably integrating and serving such loads less than 100 
MW on our system for decades. The Commission should avoid inadvertently 
complicating and delaying the interconnection processes for a significantly larger 
universe of customers than is necessary to address the narrower issue of timely and order 
interconnection of large data center customers.  
To further mitigate the risk of unintended consequences to other conventional 
loads, Duke Energy recommends FERC tailor the large load definition to those loads that 
have particular NERC-identified characteristics that present increased reliability risks.13  
For example, power electronic loads and loads that do not have adequate ride-through 
capability can present greater risks of balancing reserve shortages, voltage instability, and 
frequency instability.14 Narrowly tailoring the large load definition to encompass only 
loads that are (i) greater than 300 MW, but in no event lower than 100 MW, (ii) seeking 
to interconnect at 100 kV or greater, and (iii) exhibit operating characteristics identified 
by NERC that present added reliability risks will enable the proposed reforms to achieve 
timely, orderly, and non-discriminatory interconnection by avoiding unintended 
consequences of subjecting load that has traditionally been effectively integrated through 
existing processes. This recommended threshold would also ensure a more manageable 
 
13 NERC Large Loads Task Force White Paper, Characteristics and Risks of Emerging Large Loads at 
Appendix B, issued July 2025, available at https://www.nerc.com/globalassets/who-we-are/standing-
committees/rstc/3_doc_white-paper-characteristics-and-risks-of-emerging-large-loads.pdf.    
14 Id.  

--- PAGE 17 ---
17 
 
universe of projects to evaluate under any new FERC pro forma large load procedures 
and agreements.  
III. 
New Interconnection Rules and Procedures Must be Clear and Precise to 
Enable Timely and Orderly Interconnection.  
A. 
Coordinating Load and Generation Studies Adds Significant 
Complexity.  
The third principle outlined in the ANOPR suggests that “to the extent 
practicable, load and hybrid facilities should be studied together with generating facilities 
. . . For example, siting a large load near or at the same point of interconnection as a new 
generating facility could reduce the network upgrades needed to interconnect only the 
load or only the generating facility.”15   
 
As a general matter, Duke Energy supports the concept of a coordinated 
evaluation of load and generation to find optimal, cost-effective transmission planning 
solutions, but believes that coordination is most efficiently addressed through 
transmission planning processes. For example, in the Carolinas, Duke Energy has 
adopted a scenario-based local transmission planning process to proactively study and 
evaluate the potential for transmission upgrades to provide cost-effective solutions for 
increasing demand and new and retiring generation.16 As noted above in Section I.C.2, 
the coordination of studying individual load requests with clustered generation 
interconnection requests and other transmission service requests requires significantly 
more consideration to address implementation details and complexities of studying the 
separate, but interrelated, electrical impacts of individual load and generation. Duke 
 
15 ANOPR at P 20. 
16 Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC, 186 FERC ¶ 61,178 (2024) (approving enhancements to local transmission 
planning process and creation of a scenario-based process for studying Multi-Value Strategic Transmission 
Projects).  

--- PAGE 18 ---
18 
 
Energy urges the Commission to consider whether the time needed to address the 
complexity and details of coordinated load and generation studies will help achieve faster 
interconnection of large loads or whether such an effort could actually impede timely 
interconnections of large loads at this pivotal moment.  
B. 
Hybrid Facilities Must Be Defined as Load and Generation Behind a 
Common Point of Interconnection.  
If the Commission seeks to establish standardized procedures for coordinating 
load and generation studies, including for hybrid facilities, Duke Energy strongly 
recommends that any definition of “hybrid facilities” require that the load and generation 
be behind a common point of interconnection to the transmission system, although the 
transmission provider should be able to require metering and telemetry to separately 
monitor the load and generation behind the common point of interconnection.  
The ANOPR appears to suggest a hybrid facility could include load “near” a new 
generating facility. “Nearness” of load and generation is not a technically implementable 
standard, and the “nearness” of load and generation does not determine the electrical 
impacts to the transmission system. Allowing any electrical separation between the load 
and generation which comprise a hybrid facility will add additional complexity to already 
complex study processes by introducing more permutations of how the load and 
generation can act independently and affect the transmission system. Therefore, 
permitting hybrid facilities to include load located “near” generation would work at 
cross-purposes to the goals of timely and orderly interconnection and introduces risk to 
the reliability of the bulk power system. Requiring hybrid facilities to have load and 
generation behind a common point of interconnection reduces operational and study 
complexities, facilitating more timely and orderly studies processes.  

--- PAGE 19 ---
19 
 
C. 
Load, Generation, and Hybrid Facilities Must Be Studied in A 
Manner That Accurately Reflects Their Potential Impact to the Grid.  
The ANOPR’s fifth principle asserts that “hybrid facilities should be studied 
based on the amount of injection and/or withdrawal rights requested.”17 For example, a 
hybrid facility consisting of a 500 MW load and a 600 MW generating facility may seek 
no withdrawal rights and 100 MW of injection rights.” In short, the ANOPR proposes 
that studies be limited to net contractual rights to use the transmission system. Duke 
Energy cautions that this approach presents significant reliability risks and potential 
unintended consequences. Transmission providers must have the ability to study all load 
and generation, including hybrid facilities, in a manner that reflects the potential actual 
operating impacts to the grid. To do so, the transmission provider must fully understand 
the operating characteristics and risks of the load and generation to be studied.   
Where the transmission provider can be assured that a hybrid facility has the 
appropriate protection equipment and controls such that the hybrid facility will not be 
physically able to export to the grid, that hybrid facility could be studied outside of 
existing generator interconnection study processes without creating significant reliability 
risks from unstudied operating conditions. However, if the hybrid facility will be capable 
of injecting power to the grid, the full export or injection capabilities of that generator 
must be studied as part of the existing generator interconnection process in order to 
ensure reliability. Likewise, the full withdrawal capability of a hybrid facility must be 
evaluated as part of the load interconnection process to ensure no unstudied operating 
conditions exist that would threaten reliability. To study only the net contractual rights of 
 
17 ANOPR at P 22. 

--- PAGE 20 ---
20 
 
a hybrid facility ignores how load and generation between the common point of 
interconnection may act independently of each other. It is reasonable to assume that at 
times either the generator and/or the load will be down due to planned or forced 
maintenance activity. In these cases, the full impact to the grid must be studied. 
It is imperative for the long-term reliability of the transmission system for the full 
operating impacts of load and generation to be studied and addressed via appropriate 
transmission upgrades. However, Duke Energy understands that many perceive those 
study processes as delaying the interconnection and operation of large loads. Duke 
Energy appreciates that there are opportunities to improve study processes to find 
efficiencies at every stage of the load and generator interconnection process—from the 
study process itself to strengthening supply chains and streamlining siting and permitting. 
Duke Energy also further notes that resource adequacy is as much, if not more of a 
concern, than transmission availability when it comes to serving large load customers. 
For that reason, Duke Energy recognizes that there may be opportunities to identify 
‘bridge’ solutions for limited, temporary interconnection service rights without 
eliminating the need for full interconnection service studies that identify the need for 
long-term infrastructure expansion. SPP’s proposed Load Limited Resource 
Interconnection Service (“LLRIS”) is one formulation of such a bridge solution.18 Under 
the LLRIS proposal, SPP would study a generating resource required for a large load 
outside of its existing generator interconnection process on a serial basis, but solely for 
the impact of the generating resources’ ability to serve the large load.19 A generator 
 
18 Southwest Power Pool, Inc., Revisions to Add the High Impact Large Load Processes and Generation 
Assessment, Docket No. ER26-247 (filed Oct. 25, 2025).  
19 Id. at 5.   

--- PAGE 21 ---
21 
 
would be eligible for LLRIS for a limited, five-year term and would still be required to 
go through the existing generator interconnection process to obtain Network Resource 
Interconnection Service or Energy Resource Interconnection Service to obtain service 
beyond five years.20 
While the SPP proposal would need to be adapted to meet the operating features 
of different regions of the country (e.g., where generating resources operate as a fleet to 
serve all load, and are not designated for specific customers), the concept of a 
conditional, time-limited interconnection and transmission service for a generating 
resource needed to support resource adequacy in light of large load additions may be 
worth further evaluation. Conditions should include requirements to be re-studied during 
the term of the conditional service to continually validate the reliable operation of the 
generation and load. New conditional interconnection service and associated conditional 
transmission service products could provide opportunities to shorten the time to 
interconnection without introducing unreasonable reliability risks.  However, before 
FERC undertakes to develop rules around new conditional interconnection and 
transmission service products, FERC should consider the universe of customers that 
would, in fact, be interested in conditional service that would not guarantee them the 
24/7, 99.999 percent uptime that data center customers, in Duke Energy’s experience, 
require. In other words, is there, in fact, demand from potential data center customers for 
conditional service that requires standardized solutions within FERC’s authority to 
implement?    
 
20 Id.  

--- PAGE 22 ---
22 
 
IV. 
Up-Front Funding of Network Upgrades Paired with Rolled-In Pricing 
Ensures Large Loads Pay for Their Use of the Transmission System and 
Recognizes System Benefits of Network Upgrades.  
The ANOPR’s eighth principles proposes that “load and hybrid facilities should 
be responsible for 100% of the network upgrades that they are assigned through the 
interconnection studies.”21 The ANOPR also seeks comment on “whether such costs 
should be offset through a crediting mechanism and, if so, over how many years.”22  
Duke Energy encourages the Commission to re-consider this direct assignment 
principle and retain its repeatedly and consistently affirmed position that network 
upgrades are integrated transmission that provide benefits on a system-wide basis, which 
justifies rolled-in rate treatment.23 As the ANOPR suggests, a pricing methodology 
similar to that required by Order No. 2003 for non-independent transmission providers 
would comport with the principle that network upgrades provide system benefits, while 
also providing a price signal to large load customers about efficient sites to locate.24 
 
21 ANOPR at P 25. 
22 Id. (citing Order No. 2003 at P 22).  
23 Otter Tail Power Co., Opinion No. 93, 12 FERC ¶ 61,169, at 61,420 (1980) (Given a finding that the 
system operates as an integrated whole, transmission costs have generally been rolled-in, absent a finding 
of special circumstances. The principal reason behind adoption of this methodology is that an integrated 
system is designed to achieve maximum efficiency and reliability at a minimum cost on a systemwide 
basis. Implicit in this theory is the assumption that all customers . . . receive the benefits that are inherent in 
such an integrated system.); City of Anaheim, 113 FERC ¶ 61,091 at P 35 (2005) (“It is the Commission’s 
policy that the costs of network transmission facilities be included in transmission rates…. The fact that 
they are network facilities means that they are providing benefits to all network users.”); Ne. Tex. Elec. 
Coop., Opinion No. 474, 108 FERC ¶ 61,084, at P 47 (2004) (“It is still our policy, as it has been for many 
years, to prohibit the direct assignment of network facilities. Due to the integrated nature of the 
transmission network, network facilities benefit all network users. It does not matter whether the facilities 
were installed to meet a particular customer’s request for service.”); Pac. Gas & Elec. Co., 106 FERC ¶ 
61,144, at P 22 (2004) (“The basis of this policy is that the integrated grid is a single interconnected system 
serving and benefitting all transmission customers; indeed, it is the grid’s interconnected nature that makes 
for a reliable system consistently providing for the delivery of electric energy to all customers even when 
particular facilities go out of service, either due to scheduled maintenance or unexpected outages. Our 
rolled-in pricing policy recognizes the inherent benefit of the integrated grid to customers, by spreading the 
costs of the integrated grid among all customers.”)   
24 Order No. 2003-A at P 627.   

--- PAGE 23 ---
23 
 
Therefore, if FERC adopts standardized large load interconnection procedures after 
resolving the complexities outlined in Section I.C.2 above, Duke Energy recommends the 
adoption of large load interconnection pricing rules that would require large load 
customers to initially fund the network upgrade (unless the transmission provider elects 
to initially fund the upgrade), then require the transmission provider to credit or refund 
back to the large load customer the total amount paid for the required network upgrades.  
This pricing method would not only be consistent with Order No. 2003’s approach, but it 
would also avoid the problem of a direct assignment approach forcing transmission 
owners to operate network upgrades without an opportunity to be compensated for the 
risks and responsibilities associated with operation and earn a return.25   
While supportive of the interconnection pricing approach from Order No. 2003, 
Duke Energy cautions that the crediting mechanisms described in Order No. 2003—a 
dollar-for dollar refund against customers payments for transmission services—would be 
ill-suited for refunding large load customers who obtain transmission service from a 
competitive supplier or other intermediary and, therefore, do not receive a transmission 
service charge directly from the transmission provider. The Commission should permit 
utilities to propose on compliance a crediting mechanism that will fully refund the large 
load customer within a reasonable period and ensure the utility’s ability to include the 
refunded amount of the network upgrade as rate-based assets. For example, in practice, 
Duke Energy has implemented Order No. 2003’s crediting requirements by refunding the 
entire network upgrade cost upon energization of the network upgrade, then including 
 
25 See Ameren Servs. Co. v. FERC, 880 F.3d 571, 580-82 (D.C. Cir. 2018).   

--- PAGE 24 ---
24 
 
such costs in subsequent retail rate cases and annually updated wholesale transmission 
formula rates.  
V. 
Conclusion 
Duke Energy appreciates the opportunity to comment on these important issues, 
as well as the Commission’s careful consideration and evaluation of the issues presented 
in the ANOPR. Duke Energy encourages the Commission to stay focused on reforms that 
are legally durable, will provide adequate protection for existing customers, will maintain 
the reliability and resource adequacy of the grid, and will be a catalyst for the timely, 
orderly, and non-discriminatory interconnection of large loads.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 /s/ Molly Suda 
 
 
Molly Suda 
Associate General Counsel 
Duke Energy Corporation 
1301 Pennsylvania Ave, Suite 200 
Washington, D.C. 20004 
202-824-8011 
molly.suda@duke-energy.com 
 
Annelise Rickert 
Director, Federal Government Affairs  
Duke Energy Corporation 
1301 Pennsylvania Ave, Suite 200 
Washington, D.C. 20004 
202-824-8031 
annelise.rickert@duke-energy.com 
 
 
