--- PAGE 1 ---
1 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
BEFORE THE 
 FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the  
 
) 
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000  
Interstate Transmission System 
 
 
) 
 
REPLY COMMENTS OF  
RWE CLEAN ENERGY, LLC 
 
On October 23, the Department of Energy (“DOE”) issued a directive for the 
Commission to initiate an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking focused on reforms to the 
interconnection processes for large loads interconnecting to the interstate transmission system 
(“ANOPR”).1 Pursuant to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (“FERC” or the 
“Commission”) October 27, 2025 Notice Inviting Comments regarding the ANOPR (“October 
27 Notice”) and November 7, 2025 Notice Granting Extension of Time in the above-referenced 
proceeding, RWE Clean Energy, LLC (“RWECE”) respectfully submits these Reply Comments.  
I. 
REPLY COMMENTS 
The ANOPR resulted in approximately 200 intervenors, of which many submitted 
comments to the fourteen (14) principles for reform.2 RWECE provides responses to comments 
submitted by American Electric Power Service Corporation (“AEP”) that focused on the “entry-
fee” concept.3 
A. RWECE Supports AEP’s Entry Fee Concept 
American Electric Power Service Corporation (“AEP”) comments suggested the 
Commission should adopt an “entry fee” model where generation developers pay a standardized 
 
1 Ensuring the Timely and Orderly Interconnection of Large Loads, Advanced Notice of Proposed 
Rulemaking (ANOPR) (October 23, 2025). 
2 ANOPR at Section V. 
3 RWECE’s comments are not exclusive and should not be read to imply agreement with or adoption of 
every ANOPR principle or intervenor comments that are not the subject of these comments. 

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
 
or formulaic fee or charge to cover their interconnection costs.4  AEP proposes that this fee 
should be known to the developer prior to submission of its interconnection request. As AEP 
describes, because generation project developers will have certainty regarding cost responsibility 
upfront, this “entry fee” model reduces network upgrade cost uncertainty, which can impede the 
interconnection process and inhibit the timely interconnection of new generation.  AEP’s 
comments detail how the “entry fee” could be determined, how a fee could be structured, and 
how it could be paid by the interconnecting party. 
RWECE supports such an “entry fee” concept for its potential to provide certainty to 
project developers, both load and hybrid facilities (“LAHF”) and generation, and avoid projects 
which seek to identify low-cost interconnection locations but are rarely constructed, as AEP 
describes.5   Implementing new interconnection mechanisms quickly is important as well.  For 
example, the “entry fee” proposal that has been developed by Southwest Power Pool, Inc. 
(“SPP”) took several years to be developed and filed at FERC, and is currently pending FERC 
approval.6  Initial development of the concept and ultimate proposal began at SPP through 
creation of an SPP Consolidated Planning Process Task Force in 2021.7 The SPP proposal will 
likely not be ruled upon by FERC until 2026.   
RWECE believes that solutions which require more than 4 years to complete do not 
address the issues identified in the ANOPR.  For the immediate need, RWECE believes that 
 
4 Comments of American Electric Power Service Corporation at pp. 10-15, Docket No. RM26-4-000 
(Nov. 21, 2025) (“AEP comments”). 
5 AEP initial comments at pp. 11-12 (describing iterative study processes and speculative interconnection 
request practices that are currently common and which cause cost uncertainty for developers). 
6 Sw. Power Pool, Inc., Submission of Revisions to the SPP Open Access Transmission Tariff to 
Implement the Consolidated Planning Process, Docket No. ER26-414-000 (filed Nov. 3, 2025). 
7 SPP Consolidated Planning Process Task Force, Organization Group Scope Statement, Southwest Power 
Pool, Inc. (Oct. 4, 2021), available at: 
https://www.spp.org/documents/66117/cpptf%20scope%20final%2011292021.pdf. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
 
solutions, including the crediting mechanism methodology identified in Principle #8 of the 
ANOPR,8 and which RWECE supported in its initial comments,9 can and should be implemented 
much faster than four years to meet the objective of this acceleration initiative.  For the longer 
term, the crediting mechanism should be replaced with an “entry fee” concept, which provides 
certainty and reduced risks for LAHF and generation participants. 
II. 
CONCLUSION 
RWECE respectfully requests that the Commission take these reply comments into 
account in its consideration of the Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in this proceeding. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted,  
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/ Tom Burke 
  
 
 
 
 
RWE Clean Energy, LLC 
  
 
 
 
 
Sr. Dir., Regulatory Affairs 
  
 
 
 
 
RWE Clean Energy, LLC 
  
 
 
 
 
1401 East 6th Street, Suite 400 
  
 
 
 
 
Austin, TX 787012 
  
 
 
 
 
Thomas.Burke@rwe.com   
 
Dated: December 5, 2025 
 
8 ANOPR at P 25. 
9 Comments of RWE Clean Energy, LLC at pp. 6-9, Docket No. RM26-4-000 (Nov. 21, 2025).  
