--- PAGE 1 ---
1 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
BEFORE THE FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System 
Docket No. RM26-4-000
 
 
COMMENTS OF THE MARYLAND ENERGY ADMINISTRATION 
 
(November 21, 2025) 
 
U.S. electricity demand is projected to grow significantly in the next decade, largely 
driven by data center development and artificial intelligence (AI) applications but also new 
domestic manufacturing and electrification in the buildings and transportation sectors.1 While 
maintaining an affordable and reliable grid is paramount, ensuring new data centers can access 
sufficient energy supply is vital for protecting national security and ensuring that AI systems are 
safe and secure. Maryland has a strong interest in supporting the domestic development of AI 
applications, as they represent opportunities for state leadership in technology innovation and 
economic growth. 
 
The Maryland Energy Administration (MEA) appreciates the opportunity to comment on 
elements of the Secretary of Energy’s proposed Advanced Notice of a Proposed Rulemaking 
(ANOPR). MEA advises the Office of the Governor of the State of Maryland and the Maryland 
General Assembly on matters relating to energy policy. MEA administers grant and loan 
programs to encourage clean energy technologies in all sectors of Maryland’s economy. 
 
 
1 North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC), 2024 Long-Term Reliability Assessment (Jul. 
11, 2025). 
https://www.nerc.com/pa/RAPA/ra/Reliability%20Assessments%20DL/NERC_Long%20Term%20Reliabili
ty%20Assessment_2024.pdf  

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
First, MEA joins the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners 
(NARUC) in urging the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to preserve and affirm 
states’ retail regulatory authority under the Federal Power Act, ensure that large load 
interconnections do not compromise grid reliability or impose undue costs on retail customers, 
and respect state tools for promoting system flexibility and equitable cost allocation.2 While 
MEA’s understanding of the implications of the Secretary of Energy’s proposed ANOPR will 
continue to evolve, we offer observations from the State’s experience to date with large load 
interconnections as they relate to some of the principles that DOE believes should inform the 
Commission’s rulemaking, should FERC move forward. On May 20, 2025, Governor Moore 
signed the Next Generation Energy Act (HB1035/SB937) into law.3 Among many provisions 
designed to address energy costs in the State, the law directs electric utilities to develop specific 
rate schedules for large load customers.  
In the Secretary’s proposed ANOPR, the second principle states that “consistent with the 
Commission’s pro forma LGIP and LGIA, the reforms should only apply to new loads greater 
than 20 MW and, for hybrid facilities, where the load is greater than 20 MW.”4 Setting a 
minimum load threshold can allow smaller load customers to receive service through other 
avenues, where the associated financial risks are not as significant. For example, Maryland’s 
2 National Association of Utility Regulatory Commissioners (NARUC), Substantive Resolutions Passed by 
the NARUC Board of Directors at the November 9-12, 2025 NARUC Annual Meeting and Education 
Conference in Seattle, Washington, EL-1 Resolution Urging the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
to Preserve and Affirm State Retail Regulatory Jurisdiction in its Large Load Interconnection Proceeding. 
https://pubs.naruc.org/pub/97FE08D1-CF4D-9199-BA7F-5884DD427E55?_gl=1*15eap*_ga*MjAzNjMyM 
3 2025 Md. Laws ch. 625. 
4 U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), Secretary of Energy’s Direction that the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission Initiate Rulemaking Procedures and Proposal Regarding the Interconnection of Large Loads 
Pursuant to the Secretary’s Authority Under Section 403 of the Department of Energy Organization Act 
(Oct. 23, 2025) at 10-11. https://www.energy.gov/sites/default/files/2025-
10/403%20Large%20Loads%20Letter.pdf  

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
Next Generation Energy Act defines a “large load customer” to mean a commercial or industrial 
customer for retail electric service that has–or is projected to have–an aggregate monthly demand 
of at least 100 megawatts (MW) and a load factor of over 80%.5 As another example, under the 
PJM Interconnection (PJM) Large Load Adjustment process, in which electric distribution 
companies (EDCs) and Load Serving Entities (LSEs) submit information on significant, known 
load changes to PJM to inform its long-term load forecast report, the Load Analysis 
Subcommittee (LAS) considers requests with a category total of 50 MW or larger. If an EDC or 
LSE believes a request below 50 MW is necessary, PJM will consider it on a case by case basis.6 
Thus, MEA recommends FERC consider a higher threshold than 20 MW for defining new load 
and hybrid facilities for the purposes of the proposal, and allow some flexibility to meet unique 
regional needs.  
 
MEA concurs with the fourth principle, which provides that “like generating facilities, 
load and hybrid facilities should be subject to standardized study deposits, readiness 
requirements, and withdrawal penalties.”7 Imposing financial and readiness requirements is 
important to limit the inclusion of speculative projects that are unlikely to materialize, as when 
planning the existing capacity market and the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan (RTEP). 
Notably, the Next Generation Energy Act requires the Maryland Public Service Commission 
(PSC), Maryland’s public utility commission, to consider whether the specific rate schedule for 
large load customers protects residential retail electric customers from the financial risks 
 
5 Md. Code Ann., Public Utilities §4-212(a)(3) (2025). 
6 PJM Resource Adequacy Planning Department, Load Adjustment Request Implementation (Jul. 1, 
2025). https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/committees-groups/subcommittees/las/postings/load-
adjustment-request-implementation.pdf  
7 DOE, supra at 11.  

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
associated with large load customers, including through the use of penalties and reimbursement 
requirements.8 Each investor-owned electric company and electric cooperative must submit a 
rate schedule in accordance with the law to the PSC for approval by September 1, 2026. 
 
 
While MEA appreciates DOE’s observation that “[readiness] provisions deter speculative 
projects and provide transmission providers with more useful information to more accurately 
forecast demand on their systems,” states, too, have an important role in ensuring the accuracy of 
forecast demand.9 Many states are actively working to improve their forecasting and planning 
capabilities, to avoid overbuilding–or underbuilding–the electric system amidst emerging 
challenges and opportunities associated with load growth. MEA participates in an initiative co-
led by NARUC and the National Association of State Energy Officials (NASEO) titled, 
“Comprehensive Electricity Planning in an Era of Load Growth,” for the development of state-
led pathways toward a more resilient, efficient, and affordable grid that meets current and future 
electricity needs across the U.S.10 MEA urges FERC to approach transmission-level large load 
interconnections in a manner that will support and not hinder state decisionmakers as they work 
to develop and enhance historically siloed state resource, distribution, and transmission planning 
processes for greater alignment, increased transparency, and more robust stakeholder 
engagement, and foster constructive state, regional, and federal collaboration.11 
 
 
8 Md. Code Ann., Public Utilities §4-212(d)(2) (2025).  
9 DOE, supra at 11. Emphasis added. 
10 https://www.naruc.org/core-sectors/electricity-energy/comprehensive-electricity-planning1/  
11 https://www.energy.gov/sites/prod/files/2017/01/f34/Federal%20State%20Jurisdictional%20Split--
Implications%20for%20Emerging%20Electricity%20Technologies.pdf  

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
The seventh principle asserts that “the interconnection study of large loads that agree to 
be curtailable and hybrid facilities that agree to be curtailable and dispatchable should be 
expedited.”12 MEA believes well-designed voluntary pathways to faster interconnection can 
provide effective incentives. Further, MEA urges that any expediting of interconnection studies 
of large loads ensure minimal disruption to PJM’s generation interconnection process. 
Interconnection bottlenecks impart real costs for Maryland consumers. An analysis found that 
consumer electricity costs could have been reduced significantly in the 2025/2026 Base Residual 
Auction had the PJM interconnection process been working more efficiently to bring needed 
supply online to match demand.13 While PJM’s transition to a cluster cycle structure is expected 
to reduce processing times when the queue is reopened to new requests, FERC must ensure 
efforts to address large load interconnections complement these reforms. 
The eighth principle states “load and hybrid facilities should be responsible for 100% of 
the network upgrades that they are assigned through the interconnection studies.”14 MEA urges 
fair allocation of electricity system costs to large load customers, which can prevent unfair 
shifting of costs to other customers. The Next Generation Energy Act requires that when making 
a decision on approving a utility large load tariff, the Maryland Public Service Commission 
consider whether the tariff requires the large load customer to cover the just and reasonable cost 
associated with any electric transmission or distribution system buildout to: (i) interconnect the 
large load customer to the electric system, or (ii) serve the large load customer.15  
12 DOE, supra at 12. 
13 Grid Strategies, Penny-wise and pound foolish: PJM’s Capacity Auction Demonstrates the Cost 
Imperative of Simplified and Speedy Interconnection (Feb. 24, 2025). 
https://blog.advancedenergyunited.org/reports/penny-wise-and-pound-foolish-pjm-report 
14 DOE, supra at 12. 
15 Md. Code Ann., Public Utilities §4-212(d)(1) (2025). 

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
Finally, FERC actions should not exacerbate affordability and reliability issues, nor 
constrain state actions on resource decisions, demand response, virtual power plants (VPPs), 
distributed generation, behind-the-meter generation and energy efficiency. Affordability for 
consumers and businesses and economic competitiveness are crucial to Maryland’s energy 
future, and FERC must not lose sight of that objective. 
Respectfully submitted, 
/s/ Ryan Opsal 
Ryan Opsal, PhD 
Director of Policy, 
Maryland Energy Administration 
1800 Washington Blvd., Suite 755 
Baltimore, MD  21230 
O: (410) 537-4093 
Ryan.Opsal@maryland.gov 
