--- PAGE 1 ---
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the 
Interstate Transmission System 
) 
) 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
COMMENTS OF VANTAGE DATA CENTERS CONCERNING 
PROPOSED ADVANCE NOTICE OF PROPOSED RULEMAKING 
 
  
Vantage Data Centers (“Vantage”) submits these comments in response to the 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (“FERC” or “Commission”) Notice Inviting 
Comments dated October 27, 2025, concerning the proposed Advance Notice of Proposed 
Rulemaking (“ANOPR”) transmitted to the Commission under Secretary of Energy 
Wright’s October 23, 2025, letter to the Commission.  Vantage commends the Department 
of Energy and the Commission for addressing current issues affecting large load 
interconnections through the proposed ANOPR and appreciates the opportunity to provide 
comments on this critical topic.  The United States is experiencing rapid growth in 
technological advancements that are steadily advancing the country’s role as a global leader 
in the fields of both artificial intelligence and energy.  Vantage believes that it is imperative 
that the nation’s electric grid can fully support this growth without sacrificing reliability or 
affordability.  Well-designed regulatory guidance and planning processes can achieve that 
goal. 
I. 
VANTAGE’S INTERESTS IN THE PROCEEDING 
Vantage Data Centers is a global leader in developing hyperscale digital 
infrastructure serving the world’s leading AI and cloud providers.  With operations 

--- PAGE 2 ---
- 2 - 
spanning North America, Europe, and Africa and Asia Pacific, Vantage delivers secure, 
reliable, and scalable capacity, driven by a commitment to operational excellence and 
customer success.  Our experience both as a developer of hyperscale data centers and as a 
long-term operator of those facilities has allowed the company to create and implement 
industry-leading and responsible practices in a variety of markets.  In addition to operating 
vital digital infrastructure that supports economic expansion, innovation, and critical 
industries, Vantage’s developments directly contribute to American prosperity through 
investment into communities, job growth, and local partnerships. 
 Vantage is one of the largest and fastest growing data center companies with 8.4 
gigawatts (GW) of data center capacity under development or in operation.  Further, 
Vantage is developing two gigawatt-scale campuses in Texas and Wisconsin, together 
representing more than $40 billion of investment.   
Vantage and its customers prefer to develop grid-connected sites to promote 
reliability and resilience to ensure operational continuity for its data center customers and 
to promote the efficient and secure operation of the grid.  Vantage is also engaged in 
developing data centers that are fully or partially supported by on-site generation (referred 
to in the proposal as “hybrid facilities”) in response to the challenges of existing 
interconnection processes and an array of challenges to the timely addition of new utility-
owned generation. In particular, Vantage’s Project Frontier1 currently in development in 
 
1  
See https://vantage-dc.com/news/vantage-data-centers-unveils-plans-for-frontier-a-25b-
mega-campus-in-texas-to-meet-unprecedented-ai-demand. 
 

--- PAGE 3 ---
- 3 - 
Texas may be the nation’s largest fully non-grid connected power solution serving a 
hyperscale data center in the U.S. with sufficient on-site generation to supply 100 percent 
of the facility’s electric demand and reserve requirements.  At the same time, Vantage’s 
Lighthouse2 campus currently under development in Wisconsin will be one of the nation’s 
largest grid-connected hyperscale projects and will support the region’s bulk power system 
through the company’s financial support of extensive new energy and capacity resources 
and transmission.  These two vastly different examples of energy procurement both 
underscore the need for continued interconnection reform and serve as evidence that an 
array of effective approaches to complementing additional load with grid-supporting 
generation assets can occur in a collaborative and forward-thinking regulatory 
environment. 
Vantage’s VA2 Data Center campus in Sterling, Virginia provides a relevant 
example of how interconnection process delays will negatively affect the perceived 
benefits of a hybrid facility.  Vantage developed its VA2 data center campus with a full 
complement of on-site generation to serve its 96 MW demand, in order to meet our 
customer’s facility needs on a timely basis when the local utility’s large load 
interconnection process was unable to meet that schedule.  Vantage remains committed to 
connecting this project to the grid.  Doing so would enable the site to scale effectively while 
delivering meaningful benefits to the broader system by bringing additional generation 
online.  This represents a strong use case for the type of integration and system 
 
2  
See https://vantage-dc.com/data-center-locations/north-america/port-washington-
wisconsin.  

--- PAGE 4 ---
- 4 - 
improvements contemplated in the FERC ANOPR, demonstrating how projects like ours 
can advance reliability, resilience, and efficiency across the grid. 
II. 
COMMUNICATIONS CONCERNING THIS PROCEEDING 
Pleadings and other communications concerning this proceeding should be 
addressed to the following on behalf of Vantage: 
Andrew Stewart 
Associate General Counsel 
Vantage Data Centers Management Company, LLC 
200 Clayton Street, Suite 500 
Denver, Colorado 80206 
Telephone: (202) 550-8435 
Email: andrew.stewart@vantage-dc.com  
III. 
COMMENTS ON PROPOSED ANOPR PRINCIPLES 
 
Vantage supports many of the fourteen principles set forth in the proposed ANOPR.  
Vantage emphasizes that the specific principles and reforms concerning (1) hybrid 
interconnecting data center facilities supported in whole or in part by dedicated generating 
facilities (Principles 3 and 5), (2) expedited interconnection study procedures (Principle 7), 
(3) cost allocation for interconnection-related network upgrades (Principle 8), and (4) a fair 
and structured transition that respects existing rights (Principle 13) are of greatest 
importance.  In addition, Vantage believes that the states are critical to the development 
and implementation of the reforms envisioned in the Secretary’s October 23 transmittal to 
the Commission and subsequent ANOPR because of the integral relationship between 
those reforms and the regulatory role reserved to the states in Section 201(b)(1) of the 

--- PAGE 5 ---
- 5 - 
Federal Power Act.3  The engagement of the states in the reform process initiated by the 
proposed ANOPR is critical to success in this effort. 
A. 
Reforms for Hybrid Facility Study Processes Are Timely and Critical 
(Principles 3 and 5) 
 
The proposed ANOPR uses the expression “hybrid facilities” to describe data center 
facilities with electrical demand “seeking to share a point of interconnection with new or 
existing generation facilities.”4  With some risk of generalization, hybrid data centers can 
be viewed as products of the following tension:  On one hand, data center developers and 
their customers require expedited availability and assurances of reliability.  On the other 
hand, transmission-owning electric utilities often exercise understandable caution 
concerning the potential operational and reliability impacts of large loads.  There is 
significant variation in how utilities are able to appropriately assess risk and manage the 
interconnection of large projects.  Many utilities are concerned about their exposure, citing 
the potential burden on existing customers and the risks associated with building new 
generation and transmission upgrades to serve projected data center demand.  These 
challenges are compounded by political pressures that can prioritize certain projects over 
others, regardless of merit. 
The task becomes even more complex given the sheer volume of interconnection 
requests from prospective data centers, while only some of those projects reach commercial 
operation.  Many speculative proposals fail to materialize, leaving utilities to navigate an 
 
3  
16 U.S.C. § 824(b)(1). 
 
4  
Proposed ANOPR at P 12. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
- 6 - 
uncertain landscape.  Too often, this process lacks transparency, with limited visibility into 
how queues are managed or how decisions are made, further eroding confidence in the 
system. 
This tension creates considerable uncertainty, cost and confusion given varying 
treatment across different utilities and state regulatory jurisdictions, which in turn creates 
risks and complexity for data centers, their customers, and host communities.  At the same 
time, Vantage is compelled to make significant investments in power plants, sometimes 
having to limit or forgo reliance on traditionally reliable grid-connected power due to load 
interconnection delays, shortages of available utility supply, or infeasible interconnection 
regulations requiring large new loads to be curtailable.  
 Proposed ANOPR Principles 35 and 56 describe substantial benefits for hybrid 
facilities, grid reliability, and utility customer affordability from performance of an 
integrated study for both the load and generation components.  These benefits include: 
i. 
Potential reduction of grid impacts and costly network upgrades by 
addressing the “net injection/withdraw” of the hybrid configuration.  
Currently, many transmission and interconnection study processes 
involve independent evaluations at different times which can produce 
unintended results, including inaccurate assessments of impacts on the 
grid and resulting requirements for network upgrades that could have 
been avoided or mitigated by undertaking the studies in tandem.  
 
ii. 
Avoidance of expensive and time-consuming re-studies by 
coordinating studies of load and generation at the same or proximate 
sites. 
 
 
5  
Proposed ANOPR at P 20. 
 
6  
Proposed ANOPR at P 22. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
- 7 - 
iii. 
A reduced “net injection/withdraw” impact on the grid should align 
with reduced interconnection costs, in contrast to current study 
processes that do not consistently support this objective. 
 
iv. 
Providing hybrid developers with a clear line of sight on these issues 
should promote both the effective and efficient delivery of data center 
facilities to their customers (with resultant efficiencies in the cost of 
data services) while concurrently mitigating the consumer cost 
impacts of expanding transmission and generation capacity to 
accommodate new system demand. 
 
 Vantage endorses the above-listed principles proposed in the ANOPR and urges 
the Commission to adopt each in a final rule.  At the same time, Vantage urges FERC to 
pursue these reforms in active collaboration with state regulators.  Attaining the solutions 
envisioned in the proposed ANOPR will require coordinated and carefully balanced 
cooperation between the Commission and affected state regulators, actively implementing 
the balance of authority over the electric power industry envisioned in FPA Section 
201(b)(1).  The industry needs a more efficient regulatory framework to manage the 
challenges posed by large-load interconnection, not a more cumbersome, regulation-
intensive process. 
B. 
Fast-Track Study Processes Incenting Flexibility (Principle 7) 
 
Proposed ANOPR Principle 7 holds that “the interconnection study of large loads 
that agree to be curtailable and hybrid facilities that agree to be curtailable and dispatchable 
should be expedited.”7  Vantage supports the objective of proposed ANOPR Principle 7 
but encourages the Commission’s cautious and thoughtful consideration of potential 
 
7  
Proposed ANOPR at P 24. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
- 8 - 
negative consequences of premature implementation of this Principle’s dispatchability 
aspect. 
The reality is that Vantage invests heavily in fully islanded and hybrid 
configurations.  Vantage believes islanded generation resources which could become 
connected to the grid and grid-connected hybrids could unlock significant flexibility 
benefits under the right circumstances and regulatory constructs.  Better coordinated 
flexibility in the dispatch of on-site generation is likely the greatest source of near-term 
efficiency and enhancement of grid reliability and more efficient consumer costs, in 
contrast to the more limited benefits available through price responsive demand-side 
management of data center loads.  Existing market structures and processes are not 
empowered to viably receive, reward, or incent all of these potential benefits.  Thorough 
Commission guidance is essential to improvement in this aspect of the reforms urged by 
the proposed ANOPR.   
On one hand, subjecting the generation associated with hybrid facilities directly to 
utility or system operator dispatch creates at least two difficult issues.  First, at least without 
careful structuring, making the generation associated with hybrid facilities fully 
dispatchable (even if restricted only to grid emergencies) undermines the reliability 
rationale for installing that generation in the first place.  If hybrid facility generation is 
dispatched by a utility or system operator and not subject to instantaneous recall in the 
event of an interruption in grid-based electric service to the load side of the hybrid facility, 
the underlying rationale for the financing and construction of that generation is likely to be 
substantially impaired.  In addition, traditional contractual and organized market rule 

--- PAGE 9 ---
- 9 - 
structures for dispatchability may subject the owner or operator of the hybrid facility’s 
generation to Commission regulation as a statutory public utility under Section 201(e) of 
the Federal Power Act.8  Further, the Commission’s regime for market-based rate 
authorization may create additional limits on the attractiveness of that proposition on data 
center generation operators, for example, where the hybrid facility generation is located in, 
or creates, a load pocket bounded by import constraints precluding the deployment of 
negotiated rates.9 
On the other hand, the use of demand response structures likely does not implicate 
regulatory concerns on the part of data center generation operators to the same degree as 
subjecting hybrid facility generation to utility or system operator dispatch.  On this side of 
the house, Commission guidance on permissible terms and conditions imposable on data 
centers’ agreements to participate in demand response agreements or programs is essential 
to avoiding unduly onerous participation requirements. 
However, there are currently practical operational and commercial limitations to 
load-side flexibility and Vantage urges thoughtful contemplation on this proposed reform.  
 
8  
16 U.S.C. § 824(e) defines a “public utility” subject to Commission regulation, with certain 
exceptions not relevant to this discussion, as “any person who owns or operates facilities subject to the 
jurisdiction of the Commission under this Part,” and the relevant “facilities” broadly include all manner of 
things employed in the “sale of electric energy at wholesale in interstate commerce” under FPA Section 
201(b)(1).  
 
9  
Mkt.-Based Rates for Wholesale Sales of Elec. Energy, Capacity & Ancillary Servs. by Pub. 
Utils., Order No. 697, 119 FERC ¶ 61,295, clarified, 121 FERC ¶ 61,260 (2007), order on 
reh'g, Order No. 697-A, 123 FERC ¶ 61,055, clarified, 124 FERC ¶ 61,055, order on reh'g, Order 
No. 697-B, 125 FERC ¶ 61,326 (2008), order on reh'g, Order No. 697-C, 127 FERC ¶ 61,284 
(2009), order on reh’g, Order No. 697-D, 130 FERC ¶ 61,206 (2010), aff'd sub nom. Mont. 
Consumer Counsel v. FERC, 659 F.3d 910 (9th Cir. 2011), codified at 18 C.F.R. §§ 35.36 through 
35.42. 

--- PAGE 10 ---
- 10 - 
Vantage’s typical customers’ required need for around-the-clock uninterruptible energy 
supply precludes the ability to provide or offer significant load flexibility.  In light of this 
operational and commercial reality, Vantage is actively exploring and participating in 
innovative efforts to unlock increased data center load-side flexibility, both as stand-alone 
loads and in hybrid configurations with onsite generation.  This is taking place with 
national labs, grid management developers, and software companies.  Such innovation is 
necessary and practical rule sets and incentives can help bolster market interest.  A key 
determinant in securing such flexibility will hinge on the conditions of curtailment, which 
must be further developed through a collaborative process that addresses the economic and 
reliability concerns of data center customers, as well as those of electric utilities and retail 
electricity consumers.  This is most true with respect to minimal and maximum levels of 
curtailment, the frequency and duration of those curtailments, and requirements for 
advance notice of curtailments sufficient to enable the timely and reliable activation of 
load-side reductions or generation changes in hybrid facilities. 
C.  
Network Upgrade Cost Allocation (Principle 8) 
The recommendation of Proposed ANOPR Principle 810 that large loads should be 
fully responsible for assigned network upgrades attributable to their interconnection 
accords fully with Vantage’s commitment to absorb the full cost of upgrades required by 
its projects.  This approach promotes consistency with cost causation principles requiring 
“comparing the costs assessed against a party to the burdens imposed or benefits drawn by 
 
10  
Proposed ANOPR at P 25. 

--- PAGE 11 ---
- 11 - 
that party.”11 and avoids imposing undue burden on the utility’s ratepayers.  It is also likely 
to prove consistent with Commission principles allowing the imposition of the higher of 
embedded or incremental costs for transmission service requiring system upgrades.12 
Vantage sympathizes that public perception has not aligned with this desirable 
practice.  Vantage recognizes that mitigating circumstances and/or unique cases can occur 
and supports an assessment of exceptions with accompanying mitigating actions. Further, 
a transmission rate crediting mechanism is appropriate to ensure full compliance with the 
Commission’s “higher of” transmission pricing principle by ensuring that the data center 
customer is not allocated the full cost of network upgrades caused by its interconnection 
plus the system average embedded cost of transmission. 
D. 
Fair Transition Plans Are Essential (Principle 13) 
Proposed ANOPR Principle 13 requires “a plan to implement these proposed 
reforms” and seeks “comment on appropriate transition plans, including the treatment of 
large load interconnections that are already being studied for interconnection.”13  A fair and 
consistent regulatory structure is crucial to business continuity and ultimate success.  It is 
 
11  
Ill. Com. Comm’n v. FERC, 576 F.3d 470, 477 (7th Cir. 2009) (quoting Midwest ISO 
Transmission Owners v. FERC, 373 F.3d at 1368) (internal citations omitted).  See also City of 
Lincoln v. FERC, 89 F.4th 926, 931 (D.C. Cir. 2024) (citing Old Dominion Electric Coop. v. 
FERC, 898 F.3d 1254, 1255 (D.C. Cir. 2018)). 
12  
 Inquiry Concerning the Commission's Pricing Policy for Transmission Servs. Provided by Pub. 
Utils. Under the Fed. Power Act, Policy Statement, FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 31,005 (1994) at 31,137-
38 (“[T]he Commission has allowed a utility to charge transmission-only customers the higher of 
embedded costs (for the system as expanded) or incremental expansion costs, but not the sum of 
the two.”). 
 
13  
Proposed ANOPR at P 30. 

--- PAGE 12 ---
- 12 - 
imperative that projects with existing interconnection agreements are permitted to move 
forward under their current frameworks and grandfathered from any reform that is put in 
place – unless they voluntarily opt in to a new, Commission-approved tariff interconnection 
program that appropriately implements the guiding principles of the proposed ANOPR. 
Further, projects that are in advanced stages of development and have study results in hand 
should not be subjected to costly restudies and additional delays. 
CONCLUSION 
 
Vantage appreciates the Commission’s consideration of these comments and looks 
forward to working with the Commission and industry stakeholders as it considers next 
steps in addressing the challenges outlined herein. 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
/s/ Andrew Stewart 
___________________ 
Andrew Stewart 
Associate General Counsel 
Vantage Data Centers 
200 Clayton Street, Suite 500 
Denver, Colorado 80206 
Telephone: (202) 550-8435 
Email:  andrew.stewart@vantage-dc.com  
 
Counsel for Vantage Data Centers 
 
Dated: November 21, 2025 
 
 

--- PAGE 13 ---
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE 
 
 
The undersigned hereby certifies that one copy of the foregoing Comments of 
Vantage Data Centers Concerning Proposed Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking 
has this day been served by a means authorized by Rule 2010(f) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice and Procedure (18 C.F.R. § 385.2010(f)) on each person whose name 
appears on the Official Service List in this proceeding. 
 
 
/s/ Scott Wright 
__________________________________ 
Scott Wright 
Vantage Data Centers 
 
Dated: November 21, 2025 
 
 
 
