--- PAGE 1 ---
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION  
  
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate 
Transmission System 
)  
)  
)  
 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
  
COMMENTS OF THE 
NORTH CAROLINA UTILITIES COMMISSION  
  
The North Carolina Utilities Commission (NCUC) submits these comments pursuant to 
the October 27, 2025 Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANOPR) proposed by the 
Secretary of Energy and issued by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC or 
Commission) to ensure the timely and orderly interconnection of large loads to the transmission 
system.  
The NCUC acknowledges the policy priorities expressed by the Secretary of Energy, and 
agrees that ensuring efficient, timely, and non-discriminatory interconnection of large loads, 
including AI data centers, warrants prompt and thoughtful consideration by regulators, including 
the NCUC. However, the NCUC wants to make certain that FERC will not have jurisdiction over 
a core component of North Carolina’s regulation of bundled retail electric service: the 
interconnection of new load.  
It is important to note that North Carolina has not made the policy decision for its electric 
utilities to join an organized wholesale market. Instead, North Carolina maintains a robust 
structure of oversight and public participation that, in several key respects, exceeds the 
transparency and accountability requirements found in regional transmission organizations 
(RTOs). The NCUC notes that it understands the impetus for the ANOPR but has concerns about 
the unintended consequences.  

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
While the ANOPR states that the proposed action would “avoid even arguably affecting 
the States’ jurisdiction over generation facilities, facilities used in local distribution, or only for 
the transmission of electric energy in intrastate commerce,” the NCUC remains concerned that 
invoking the Commission’s “seven-factor test” to delineate transmission from local distribution 
could, in practice, redefine portions of retail service connections as FERC-jurisdictional.1 The 
NCUC is also concerned about the proposed 20 MW large load threshold. For these reasons, the 
NCUC urges that any FERC rulemaking affirmatively preserve the bright jurisdictional line 
drawn by the Federal Power Act so that North Carolina and other states can be assured that they 
will retain jurisdiction over generation facilities, facilities used in local distribution and for the 
transmission of electric energy in intrastate commerce. 
North Carolina has already taken decisive steps to address the very challenges this ANOPR 
purports to solve: 
1. In its 2024 Carbon Plan and Integrated Resource Plan (CPIRP) Proceeding, the NCUC 
allowed Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC and Duke Energy Progress, LLC (together, Duke) 
to re-file and adjust their planning assumptions when updated economic-development 
forecasts, including data centers, materially changed the projected load forecast.2 The 
final order issued by the NCUC on November 1, 2024 required Duke to file semiannual 
large-load reports to monitor new economic-development activity and large customer 
 
1 ANOPR at P18. 
 
2 Order Scheduling Public Hearings, Establishing Interventions and Testimony Due Dates and Discovery 
Guidelines, Requiring Public Notice, And Providing Direction Regarding Duke’s Supplemental Modeling, Docket 
No. E-100, Sub 190 (N.C.U.C. Jan. 17, 2024), available at 
https://starw1.ncuc.gov/NCUC/ViewFile.aspx?Id=c662e06e-6a74-4635-b84a-1ef62fe216d0   

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
additions.3 Pursuant to that directive, Duke submitted its first Semi-Annual Update 
Report on May 15, 2025, showing that the portfolio of “advanced development” projects 
had expanded by approximately 50 percent (roughly 2,000 MW) since mid-2024.4 These 
reports, filed every six months, ensure that the NCUC receives timely updates on large-
load growth, including data centers.  
2. On June 6, 2025, the NCUC issued an Order Initiating Proceeding and Requesting 
Comments to obtain information regarding the forecasted tremendous increase in large 
load projects, including data centers and manufacturing facilities, and how to fairly and 
efficiently integrate the additions in North Carolina.5 The NCUC subsequently held a 
two-day technical conference with representatives from Duke Energy, Dominion Energy, 
the Public Staff - North Carolina Utilities Commission, the Data Center Coalition, large-
load customers, and numerous other stakeholders to explore potential frameworks for 
integrating new industrial and data-center load growth. 
3. The NCUC will soon revisit these same issues in the current Carbon Plan Integrated 
Resource Plan (CPIRP) proceeding and Duke Energy’s rate cases, where issues about 
how new-load integration costs should be allocated within North Carolina’s bundled-rate 
structure are expected to be raised. These proceedings, held under state law and subject to 
 
3 Order Accepting Stipulation, Granting Partial Waiver of Commission Rule R8-60a(D)(4), and Providing 
Further Direction For Future Planning, Docket No. E-100, Sub 190 (N.C.U.C. Nov. 1, 2024), available at: 
https://starw1.ncuc.gov/NCUC/ViewFile.aspx?Id=cfc6d586-12e4-447f-a552-757d6e73c30e 
 
4 Semi-Annual Update Report on Large-Load Customer Additions in Advanced Stages of Development – 
Spring 2025, Docket No. E-100, Sub 207 (N.C.U.C. May 15, 2025), available at: 
https://starw1.ncuc.gov/NCUC/ViewFile.aspx?Id=5f4a1679-2efa-423e-ace8-f1b105487106 
 
5 Docket No. E-100, Sub 208 (N.C.U.C. Jun. 6, 2025), available at: 
https://starw1.ncuc.gov/NCUC/ViewFile.aspx?Id=e11bad51-1ebd-4237-acf7-358c292be069 

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
full evidentiary review, provide the appropriate venue for determining the prudence and 
timing of utility investments necessary to serve new demand, including data centers. 
The NCUC further points out that North Carolina has previously provided valuable 
procedural innovation to FERC. North Carolina implemented a cluster-based generator 
interconnection study process in 2021, three years before FERC issued Order No. 2023 in July 
2024. North Carolina also maintains a steady pipeline of new generation resources developed 
through our CPIRP process, which is coupled with the Certificate of Public Convenience and 
Necessity process for individual facilities and subsequent rate-case cost-recovery proceedings. 
Each step includes multiple layers of scrutiny (including local hearings open for public 
attendance and vital oversight by the NCUC’s independent consumer advocate division, the 
Public Staff) ensuring that the proposed projects are necessary, cost-effective, and consistent with 
least-cost, reliable service. Together, these proceedings demonstrate that North Carolina’s 
regulatory framework is already actively, effectively, and efficiently managing large-load 
integration in a transparent, least-cost, and reliability-focused manner.  
The NCUC agrees with the fourteenth planning principle discussed in the ANOPR, which 
emphasizes that utilities serving large loads must comply with all applicable NERC reliability 
standards and OATT provisions.6 The NCUC concurs that maintaining reliability for energy-
intensive customers such as data centers is a critical and shared responsibility. To that end, the 
NCUC supports enhanced federal–state communication to ensure reliability of the Bulk Electric 
System while respecting existing jurisdictional boundaries. The NCUC concurs that NERC’s 
 
6 ANOPR at P31. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
review of potential new registration categories and reliability standards is an appropriate avenue 
for addressing these concerns.  
The NCUC respectfully requests that FERC give full consideration to these comments as 
it formulates any subsequent Notice of Proposed Rulemaking. 
Dated this 20th of November, 2025 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted,  
 
 
 
 
 
NORTH CAROLINA UTILITIES COMMISSION 
                                                      By:  
/s/ Yanneka F. King Mazzara  
 
 
 
Yanneka F. King Mazzara 
Staff Attorney 
North Carolina Utilities Commission 
4325 Mail Service Center 
Raleigh, North Carolina 27699-4300 
Tel. (919)715-1092 
ykingmazzara@ncuc.gov 
 
 
Aditya Keskar 
Program Manager: Engineering, Regulatory 
Policy, and Federal Affairs 
North Carolina Utilities Commission 
4325 Mail Service Center 
Raleigh, North Carolina 27699-4300 
Tel. (919)733-0839 
akeskar@ncuc.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
