--- PAGE 1 ---
FINAL (11/21/2025) 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
 
Interconnection of Large Loads to the Interstate 
Transmission System 
Docket No. RM26-4-000 
 
INITIAL COMMENTS OF INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CREDIT ASSOCIATION 
 
The International Energy Credit Association (“IECA”) submits these comments in 
response to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (“Commission”) Notice Inviting 
Comments issued on October 27, 2025, in above captioned docket. In its Notice, the Commission 
referenced a proposed advance notice of proposed rulemaking (proposed “ANOPR”) issued on 
October 23, 2025, by the Secretary of Energy (“Secretary”) pursuant to Section 403 of the 
Department of Energy Organization Act,1 which authorizes the Secretary to propose rules for 
consideration by the Commission. The Secretary’s transmittal letter of October 23, 2025, called 
for the Commission to take “final action (no later than April 30, 2026)” on the Secretary’s proposed 
ANOPR.  
Fundamentally, the Secretary’s proposed ANOPR is intended to expedite the process of 
interconnecting large loads in excess of 20 MW to the interstate transmission system, focusing 
primarily on the interconnection of Data Centers to the grid. The Secretary’s proposed  
ANOPR is consistent with President Trump’s issuance on July 23, 2025, of Winning the Race: 
America’s AI Action Plan.  Recognizing the significance and the urgency of the public interest 
served by expediting the interconnection of Data Centers to the interstate transmission system, the 
IECA appreciates the opportunity to submit these initial comments on the Secretary’s proposed 
ANOPR for the Commission’s consideration. 
I. 
IDENTITY AND INTEREST 
The IECA is an association of over 800 credit, risk management, legal and finance 
professionals that is dedicated to promoting the education and understanding of credit and other 
risk management-related issues in the energy industry. For the last 100 years, IECA members have 
actively promoted the development of best practices that reflect the unique needs and concerns of 
the energy industry. The IECA seeks to protect the rights and advance the interests of a broad 
range of domestic and foreign energy market participants, representatives of which make up the 
IECA’s membership. These entities finance, produce, sell, purchase for resale, and hedge their 
exposure to risk related to, substantial quantities of various physical energy commodities, 
including electricity, natural gas, oil, refined petroleum products, hydrogen, ammonia, renewable 
energy certificates, voluntary carbon credits, and numerous other energy-related physical 
commodities (both tangible and intangible) necessary for the healthy functioning of the energy 
markets and the “real economy.” 
 
1 42 U.S.C. § 7173.  

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
- 2 - 
 
As market participants in physical and financial energy markets in the U.S. and globally, 
IECA members are directly affected by the enormousness of the impact on physical and financial 
energy markets of Data Center development, artificial intelligence (“AI”) implementation, new 
power plant construction needed to serve the Data Centers that will implement AI and other 
advanced computing functions, and the formation of Federal and State policies to encourage that 
development. 
 
IECA members welcome these developments and seek to ensure that such policies and 
regulations are just and reasonable to all constituencies. On that basis, we submit these comments. 
 
II. 
PLEADINGS AND COMMUNICATIONS 
Pleadings and other communications concerning this proceeding should be directed to the 
following persons: 
Phil Lookadoo, Esq. 
Haynes and Boone, LLP 
800 17th Street, NW, Suite 500 
Washington, DC 20006 
Phone: 202-654-4510 
Email: phil.lookadoo@haynesboone.com 
 
Jeremy Weinstein, Esq. 
Law Offices of Jeremy Weinstein, PC 
1512 Bonanza Street 
Walnut Creek, CA 94596 
Phone: 925-943-2708 
Email: jweinstein@jweinsteinlaw.com 
 
III. 
COMMENTS 
The IECA respectfully offers the following comments. We believe the public interest is 
best served by creating a regulatory framework in which large loads, focusing primarily on large 
Data Centers, can be developed expeditiously in the U.S. to ensure that: (A) Data Center 
development does not move offshore to other countries with a more Data Center-friendly 
regulatory environment; and (B) the U.S. continues to be a leader in the global race to both develop 
and implement AI and other advanced computing capabilities. 
A. BASIC DATA CENTER AND AI TERMINOLOGY 
A good starting point for this discussion is establishing a common understanding of the 
certain terms that are used to define and describe Data Centers and AI. 
Compute. Data Centers produce and sell a service, which is also referred to as a commodity, 
called “compute.” “Compute” is the processing power of hardware (i.e., chips, such as graphic 
processing units (“GPUs”)) that runs applications, organizes, processes and retrieves data, and 
analyzes data, which is often measured in floating-point operations per second (“FLOPS”); 
“Storage” is the repository where data is saved. A “Stack” is the hardware (i.e., chips or GPUs), 
the software (i.e., programming languages), and the infrastructure (i.e., the Data Centers and the 
resources required to run the Data Centers such as cooling equipment, servers, and cables). 
GPUs/Chips. The GPUs (i.e., computer chips) in Data Centers perform an incredibly large 
number of calculations (i.e., FLOPS) each second. For example, a MacBook Air laptop computer 
with an M1 chip has a peak speed of 2.6 trillion calculations per second, which is a speed of 2.6 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
- 3 - 
 
teraflops. In contrast, the Frontier super-computer at Oak Ridge National Laboratory has a peak 
speed of 1,679 quadrillion calculations per second, which is a speed of 1,679.82 petaflops. 
Asynchronous Computing. The GPUs also perform “asynchronous” computing, which 
means that while the main program is performing one task it can send a thread to perform another 
task in parallel (i.e., at the same time) and the main program is “not blocked,” i.e., the main 
program is not required to wait for that task to be completed before resuming its original task. 
Asynchronous essentially means “not blocking” or not having to wait for an operation to complete 
before or while performing a different or parallel operation. So-called “threads” are one way of 
consuming compute asynchronously, which allows a web server to handle multiple user requests 
simultaneously or a GPU to run a compute-heavy task in parallel with a less compute-intense task. 
AI. An AI model is a computer program that uses one or more algorithms to learn from 
data and make predictions or decisions. AI is then a model that consumes compute produced in a 
Data Center for two primary functions, “training” compute and “inference” compute: 
“Training compute” is the learning phase where an AI model processes and stores large 
volumes of data from a dataset to optimize performance by altering its parameters; and 
“Inference compute” is the thinking phase where a trained AI model is put to 
application, generating responses from inputs.  
When a “trained” AI model uses its learned knowledge to analyze new data and produce a 
prediction or a decision, that prediction or decision is an “inference.” 
Inference. The “inference” or “operational” phase of AI is the stage where an AI model 
becomes functional in real-world applications. Consuming “Inference compute” is the process that 
a trained AI model uses to draw conclusions from data the model has not previously seen. An 
example would be a self-driving car that recognizes a stop sign on a road it has not previously seen 
or driven. An “inference” is an AI model viewing new data, performing quadrillions of calculations 
in a second comparing that new data to the data in its database, and instantly drawing one or more 
conclusions or making one or more predictions (i.e., inferences) about that new data. 
Hyperscalers. “Hyperscalers” are large cloud service providers, which can provide services 
such as computing and storage at the scale required by large enterprises. Hyperscalers operate 
massive global Data Centers to offer highly scalable and on-demand computing, storage, and 
networking services, which allow businesses to quickly scale resources up or down and manage 
large applications. Hyperscalers invest heavily in redundant infrastructure, disaster recovery, and 
advanced security measures to ensure high availability and protect data. 
Transient Loads. “Transient Loads” in Data Centers are short-term, high-intensity power 
fluctuations that can be caused by tasks like intensive computation (e.g., GPU use in AI training) 
and rapid server load changes. These unpredictable spikes and dips stress the power grid and can 
cause equipment damage, voltage instability, and safety concerns. To manage them, Data Centers 
must accurately plan for peak power demand, use advanced grid protection, maintain robust 
grounding, and consider systems like microgrids and battery storage. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
- 4 - 
 
Controllable Dispatch. “Controllable Dispatch,” when used with Data Centers, refers to the 
ability to remotely control and manage a Data Center's power consumption and operations, often 
in coordination with the electric grid, to optimize energy usage and costs. This is typically achieved 
through Data Center automation, smart grid technologies, and demand response programs, 
allowing a Data Center to shift or reduce its load during peak demand or when electricity prices 
are high. 
 
B. “COMPUTE” IS BECOMING A COMMODITY, SOLD IN COMMODITY 
MARKETS, AND SUBJECT TO COMMODITY MARKET RISKS 
Physical “compute” services produced and sold by Data Centers (or by those renting space 
in the Data Centers to house their computers) are rapidly becoming somewhat fungible 
commodities, which can be bought, sold, and traded as physical forward transactions (i.e., no 
futures, swaps, commodity options, or other derivatives yet) on the Compute Exchange (see 
https://compute.exchange/).  
Perhaps in the near future we will also see one or more financial markets form to allow 
trading of a “futures contract” based on the bid and ask price for such physical market sales of 
“compute.” Financially-settled swaps and other financial derivatives could then be negotiated with 
the floating market price for “compute” being set by the markets for futures contracts or physical 
contracts for “compute.” By buying and selling futures and swaps based on “compute” market 
prices, both producers and users of “compute” could hedge their exposure to the commercial risks 
of volatility in the price of “compute” and volatility in the available supply of “compute.”  
As a result, the rapidly growing number of Data Centers producing largely fungible 
“compute” services for AI users and other applications could soon be experiencing many of the 
same market forces faced by other commodity markets, including shortages and surpluses in the 
available supplies of “compute,” and market price volatility for those buying and selling 
“compute;” 
To date, investment in Data Centers and AI has been moving generally in an upward 
trajectory. However, according to an article on page 10 of the Financial Times (USA edition), 
dated November 19, 2025: 
“A majority of global fund managers think companies are overinvesting as market anxiety 
grows about the sustainability of the artificial intelligence spending boom.” 
The commoditization of “compute” as the primary product offered for sale by Data Centers 
is already beginning to influence the economic investment strategies of Data Center developers 
and users. 
Initially, Data Center developers pursued power purchase agreements (“PPAs”) or 
ownership of co-located electric generating facilities that would provide access to reliable firm 
electric energy supplies that would deliver 100% of each Data Center’s peak electric requirements 
with an availability of no less than 99.999% (often referred to as “five nines”) during every hour 
of every day. This extremely high availability was thought to be “essential” to enable a Data Center 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
- 5 - 
 
to deliver the “compute” service required by Data Center customers purchasing “compute” for AI 
and other applications. 
Achieving this “five nines” availability, however, required 100% redundancy of every 
element of the supply chain that generated and delivered electric energy to the Data Center. Any 
and every component in that energy supply chain, which could fail and lead to a disruption in 
deliveries of electric energy to the Data Center had to be duplicated and redundant, so that the 
duplicate component could be called-on instantly if and when its twin component failed. This 
meant building two 100 MW electric generators, perhaps each comprised of multiple 20 MW or 
30 MW generator sets, with two separate natural gas pipelines feeding into the generators, when, 
in fact, 100 MWh of electric energy was the maximum quantity of electric energy the Data Center 
would ever consume in any hour. 
Installing, or entering into a PPA to purchase, 200 MW of electric generating capacity, 
when only 100 MW is required to operate a Data Center is economically prudent as long as the 
sales price from selling “compute” generates more in revenues for the Data Center owner than is 
spent on electric generating capacity. 
Initially, a proposed Data Center would pay $50 to $75 per MW for installing, constructing, 
or purchasing electric energy generating capacity, which was less than 1/3 of the cost per MW to 
be paid by the Data Center’s customers who were buying “compute” for their AI applications. That 
large “spread” allowed Data Center developers to conclude that requiring redundant components 
for 100% of the components in any electric energy supply chain was prudent and readily 
affordable. 
However, as the number of Data Centers built and brought online begins to approach and 
exceed the level of demand of Data Center customers seeking to purchase “compute,” that spread 
will quickly narrow in the commodity markets for “compute.” Eventually the cost of installing 
100% redundant electricity supply resources will no longer be economic for Data Center owners 
or tenants. 
At the same time, greater use and application of AI will likely result in greater efficiencies 
for GPU/chip operations, which could reduce the net MWh of electric energy required by 
GPUs/chips to produce the quantities of “compute” required today by Data Center customers. 
Collectively, these influences are causing some Data Center developers, Data Center users, 
and power project developers to shift their focus away from 100% redundancy to focus on: (i) 
improving and implementing Data Center infrastructure management (“DCIM”) software to 
manage “controllable dispatch,” and (ii) pursuing battery energy storage systems (“BESS”) and 
other technological means to accommodate the “transient load” swings in the consumption of 
electric energy by chips/GPUs as and when they are called on by Data Center customers to perform 
training or inference functions. 
As a result, while almost unthinkable just a short time ago, Data Centers and their tenants 
renting space in each Data Center for their computer facilities are now beginning to consider 
“controllable dispatch” management and more traditional demand-side management tools to 
reduce the levels of electric energy generating capacity each Data Center feels it must maintain to 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
- 6 - 
 
meet the needs of its customers buying “compute” produced by its Data Center, rather than simply 
duplicating 100% of the electric generating capacity supply chain required by each Data Center’s 
peak usage. 
In certain select applications, demand-side management and other reductions of Data 
Center consumption of electric energy during times of stress on the transmission grid, once thought 
to be unachievable with Data Center loads, appear to be increasing in availability.  We 
acknowledge, however, that Hyperscalers who maintain cloud storage and disaster recovery 
systems may still require substantial redundancy. 
 
C. SIMULTANEOUS CONSIDERATION OF THE IMPACTS ON THE 
TRANSMISSION GRID OF INTERCONNECTING NEW GENERATION 
AND NEW LARGE LOADS CROSSES TRADITIONAL JURISDICTIONAL 
LINES, WHICH CAN LEAD TO EITHER “COMBAT” OR 
“COLLABORATION” AMONG BOTH REGULATORS AND THOSE 
REGULATED; WE RECOMMEND COLLABORATION 
Recognition of the jurisdictional intersection between the Commission’s existing rules and 
regulations that apply to the interconnection of large generators to the nation’s transmission grid 
in all but the ERCOT region of Texas, and the existing rules and regulations of States and the 
existing tariffs of State-regulated utilities that traditionally apply to the interconnection of large 
loads to the nation’s grid is absolutely necessary. Similarly, appreciation of the ongoing efforts of, 
and collaboration with, State governments and public utility commissions, which have in many 
States already begun implementing a regulatory framework that has enabled the rapid development 
of Data Centers in such States, is equally necessary. 
Similarly, recognition of the Commission’s traditional regulation of sales for resale (i.e., 
wholesale sales) in interstate commerce of electric energy under Section 205 of the Federal Power 
Act (FPA) and State regulation of retail sales of electric energy under the laws of each State must 
be appreciated as the Commission considers establishing rules for the interconnection of large 
loads to the interstate transmission system. 
Rather than spending valuable time fighting between the Commission and State regulators 
over jurisdictional boundaries, we urge all sides to work together to recognize and remedy those 
circumstances in which the process of interconnecting large loads to the interstate transmission 
system under State laws is taking an inordinate amount of time and seek ways to expedite the 
process for interconnecting large loads to the grid. We also urge the Commission to recognize 
regional differences and not impose a new mandatory interconnection process on those regions 
experiencing rapid load growth from large loads, which are not experiencing interconnection 
challenges or delays. Because “speed to market” is critical, we support targeted efforts that 
minimize jurisdictional conflicts and preserve existing processes in any State where its 
interconnection processes are effectively avoiding the delays being experienced in other States. 
In the grid administered by the PJM Interconnection LLC (“PJM”), for example, 
interconnections of large loads are experiencing significant delays. We understand that PJM and 
its stakeholders are considering various proposals that are intended to remedy such interconnection 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
- 7 - 
 
delays. We are aware of one such proposal that has been proposed by the Data Center Coalition 
(“DCC”), which is called the DCC’s Voluntary, Limited Large Customer Bring Your Own 
Generation Pathway, as described in the DCC’s slide presentation dated October 24, 2025 
(“BYOG Pathway”). The DCC brought together both State representatives (i.e., the Governors of 
Maryland, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Virginia regulating the interconnection of loads in each 
State) and PJM (as the Federal representative regulating the interconnection of generators in those 
same States) to develop a cross-jurisdictional process for encouraging the simultaneous study of 
the grid impacts of Data Centers and associated generators for interconnection purposes. 
Under the DCC’s proposed BYOG Pathway, Data Center applicants will be given an 
expedited review and approval of their interconnection of both a large load (e.g., a Data Center) 
and a new electric generator, if both are brought together to the local utility in the “same Locational 
Deliverability Area,” provided that: 
(i) 
large load customers electing BYOG provide “upfront funding for network 
upgrades” determined to be necessary to access accelerated interconnection; 
(ii) 
large load customer brings by PPA or other agreement: (i) a new electric generation 
resource, (ii) any uprated or expanded existing generation resource, (iii) a 
generation resource that didn’t clear the previous capacity auction, (iv) a generation 
resource that undergoes fuel-switching for economic reasons to a more efficient 
fuel type, or (v) a generating resource with an independent audit finding a 
compelling economic basis for retirement and approval by the State where it is 
located; and 
(iii) 
the “generation must be one-for-one accredited capacity tied to the large load 
customer’s ramp schedule.”  
We submit that a collaborative approach between States and the Commission can produce 
a process that can simultaneously study both a Data Center and a contractually-associated electric 
generation resource by joining both (i) the Federal approval of interconnection of the generation 
resource (through the Commission-regulated LGIP and LGIA process) and (ii) the State approval 
(through a State-regulated utility) of the interconnection of a new large load. We recommend that 
the Commission work collaboratively with the States in those markets where the interconnection 
of Data Centers is experiencing delays. 
Conversely, we also recognize that in the Southeast and some areas in the West a significant 
amount of Data Center load growth is occurring without the same large load interconnection delays 
facing other areas.  In those States, there is no compelling reason to alter the already successful 
large load interconnection processes for Data Centers in those States. Forcing a mandatory large 
load interconnection process on those States could lead to unintended consequences, and a less 
efficient outcome than exists today. Such outcomes could frustrate the goals of “speed to market.” 
Therefore, we do not believe a one-size-fits-all approach would be appropriate. 
We support the ANOPR’s proposal to require Data Center applicants and associated 
electric generation facilities to bear the expense of their related interconnections with the interstate 
transmission system, so that such costs are not passed on to, and not socialized among, the other 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
- 8 - 
 
customers served by that portion of the transmission system. This same concept has been applied 
by the Commission to interconnections of electricity generators for many years and has worked 
well. This approach also avoids having other users of the transmission system pay for network 
upgrades and other interconnection costs for generator projects that are speculative and fail to be 
constructed. The same should be true for Data Center interconnection costs when coupled with a 
co-located electric generation facility. 
We fully support the proposal in the ANOPR of simultaneously studying the impacts on 
the network of one or more large loads (i.e., Data Centers) and one or more associated electric 
generating facilities as offsetting loads and resources and therefore worthy of expedited 
consideration and approval as a reasonable approach to addressing the interconnection of Data 
Centers that co-locate with existing or new electric generation facilities. 
There are, however, certain additional questions that should be addressed with any such 
grid-connected Data Center and electric generation facility combination. Under normal operating 
conditions, the load (i.e., the Data Center) and the accredited capacity of the resource (i.e., the 
electric generation facility) offset each other and the network impact is negligible. However, some 
provision should be made for what will happen when the resource (i.e., generator) or the load (i.e., 
the Data Center) experiences a full or partial outage, whether scheduled or unscheduled.  
Such a provision should answer the following questions: 
• If a Data Center with a load profile that consumes, for example, 200 MWh of 
electric energy during many or most hours of the day suddenly comes on the grid 
when its co-located electric generator experiences a full or partial outage, how will 
that additional load be met? 
• Should the Data Center be required to cease operating (which defeats the purpose 
of interconnecting with the grid as a backstop)? 
• Should the Data Center be required to reduce its consumption of electric energy for 
applications other than the levels necessary to continue producing “compute”? 
• Should the Data Center be required to use reasonable efforts to direct part or all of 
its customers’ purchases of “compute” to other Data Centers? 
• Should any such rules contain an exception or some type of prioritization for Data 
Centers providing cloud storage and disaster recovery services to its customers? 
• If a large generator that generates, for example, 200 MWh of electric energy 
suddenly is delivering its output to the grid when its co-located Data Center 
experiences a full or partial outage, how will the transmission system be protected 
from the surge of additional electric energy? 
• Should the grid’s response to such circumstances be automated? Who should 
control such automated systems and who should bear the costs of such systems? 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
- 9 - 
 
We look forward to the discussion and resolution of these questions and other issues as the 
Commission and other stakeholders contemplate the rules and regulations that the Commission 
should implement in any proceeding related to the Secretary’s proposed ANOPR. 
 
D. COMMENTS ON SPECIFIC PRINCIPLES FOR REFORM SET FORTH IN 
THE PROPOSED ANOPR 
Following the outline set forth in the Secretary’s proposed ANOPR now under 
consideration by the Commission,2 the IECA offers comments on several, but not all, of the 
Principles for Reform set forth in the ANOPR. 
(i) Principles for Reform 
As set forth in the ANOPR: 
18. First, to avoid even arguably affecting the States’ jurisdiction over generation 
facilities, facilities used in local distribution or only for the transmission of electric 
energy in intrastate commerce, or transmissions consumed by the transmitter, the 
Commission’s jurisdiction should be limited to interconnections directly to 
transmission facilities, consistent with the Commission’s seven-factor test.3 
 
IECA Comments on 1st Principle for Reform. 
 
The IECA offers no initial comments on this 1st Principle for Reform, but we reserve the 
right to submit a response in any Reply Comments the IECA may submit in this proceeding, 
which are due on or before December 5, 2025. 
 
19. Second, consistent with the Commission’s pro forma LGIP and LGIA, the 
reforms should only apply to new loads greater than 20 MW and, for hybrid 
facilities, where the load is greater than 20 MW. We seek comment on alternative 
thresholds, including whether such a threshold is necessary at all. 
 
IECA Comments on 2nd Principle for Reform. 
 
As noted in our comments above, we do not think this approach should be mandatory in 
areas of the U.S. where Data Center interconnections are not experiencing delays that may be 
perceived as excessive. 
 
 
2 
The 
full 
text 
of 
the 
proposed 
ANOPR 
can 
be 
found 
at: 
https://www.energy.gov/sites/default/files/2025-10/403%20Large%20Loads%20Letter.pdf and, 
as noted above, also is posted on the Commission’s eLibrary in this Docket. 
3 “The seven-factor test enables [the Commission] to identify the “primary function” of a 
facility. This primary function determines whether the facility is under [the Commission's] 
jurisdiction.” Cal. Pac. Elec. Co., 133 FERC ¶ 61,018, at P 45 (2010). 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
- 10 - 
 
In addition, for purposes of expediting interconnection to the transmissions system (i.e., 
enhancing “speed to market”), we submit that expedited review and approval should be available 
to all loads (i.e., all Data Centers), not just large Data Centers in excess of any particular size. 
 
Finally, for purposes of protecting the reliability of the transmission system, we note that 
a load of 20 MW may be perceived as inconsequential and need not require special consideration. 
Reliability and resource adequacy issues are affected much more by loads of 100 MW or larger, 
so setting an artificially low threshold could be problematic for purposes of addressing grid 
reliability. See also our discussion of the 14th Principle for Reform shown below in these 
Comments.  
 
20. Third, to the extent practicable, load and hybrid facilities should be studied 
together with generating facilities. Such an approach will allow for efficient siting 
of loads and generating facilities and thereby minimize the need for costly network 
upgrades. For example, siting a large load near or at the same point of 
interconnection as a new generating facility could reduce the network upgrades 
needed to interconnect only the load or only the generating facility. 
 
IECA Comments on 3rd Principle for Reform. 
 
We support studying load and hybrid facilities together with generating facilities for all the 
reasons noted above in our comments and as discussed in the Secretary’s proposed ANOPR. We 
also suggest that such a study could also address “Controllable Dispatch” issues and other 
questions we noted above in our comments, effectively addressing what happens when one side 
drops, while the other remains on the grid, and developing a plan for addressing the grid impacts 
of the generator or Data Center experiencing a scheduled or unscheduled outage. 
 
 
21. Fourth, like generating facilities, load and hybrid facilities should be subject to 
standardized study deposits, readiness requirements, and withdrawal penalties. 
These provisions deter speculative projects and provide transmission providers 
with more useful information to more accurately forecast demand on their systems. 
We seek comment on the extent to which the existing study deposits, readiness 
requirements, and withdrawal penalties can be adopted. We also seek comment on 
whether additional commitments or financial penalties would be appropriate. 
 
IECA Comments on 4th Principle for Reform. 
 
The IECA offers no initial comments on this 4th Principle for Reform, but we reserve the 
right to submit a response in any Reply Comments the IECA may submit in this proceeding, which 
are due on or before December 5, 2025. 
 
22. Fifth, hybrid facilities should be studied based on the amount of injection and/or 
withdrawal rights requested. For example, a hybrid facility consisting of a 500 MW 
load and a 600 MW generating facility may seek no withdrawal rights and 100 MW 

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
- 11 - 
 
of injection rights. This provides incentives for co-location with new generation 
facilities and ensures efficient buildout of the transmission system. 
 
IECA Comments on 5th Principle for Reform. 
 
The IECA offers no initial comments on this 5th Principle for Reform, but we reserve the 
right to submit a response in any Reply Comments the IECA may submit in this proceeding, which 
are due on or before December 5, 2025. 
 
23. Sixth, any hybrid interconnection shall be required to install the system 
protection facilities necessary to prevent unauthorized injections or withdrawals 
that exceed the respective rights. We seek comment on whether other operational 
limitations should be considered. We also seek comment on the minimum technical 
requirements for such system protection facilities, whether a hybrid interconnection 
customer should be subject to penalties for unauthorized injections or withdrawals, 
how any such penalties should be designed, and how such penalties should be 
allocated to other transmission customers. 
 
IECA Comments on 6th Principle for Reform. 
 
We support requirements to install system protection facilities to prevent unauthorized 
injections or withdrawals, but we also recognize and support the ability of Data Centers relying on 
the grid as a backstop source of electric energy when a co-located generator experiences a full or 
partial outage. If a Data Center is unable to rely on the grid for back-up supply, then these policies 
would encourage Data Centers to operate as an “island” or micro-grid totally disconnected from 
the grid, which is probably not the best result for the Data Center or other users of the grid. To 
further manage these issues, Data Centers could enter into a PPA or other agreement with the local 
utility or another grid participant for back-up supplies of electric energy whenever their co-located 
generation facility experiences a scheduled or unscheduled outage. 
 
24. Seventh, the interconnection study of large loads that agree to be curtailable and 
hybrid facilities that agree to be curtailable and dispatchable should be expedited. 
The system operator’s ability to control such facilities through curtailment and/or 
dispatch must be sufficient for the system operator to integrate the facility into both 
operations and system planning. This ensures the timely and orderly addition of 
large loads to the transmission system in a safe, reliable, and non-discriminatory 
manner. We seek comment on whether this should be accomplished through a serial 
interconnection study process or by some other means. We also seek comment on 
appropriate deadlines for such an expedited study process, including whether such 
studies can be completed in 60 days. 
 
IECA Comments on 7th Principle for Reform. 
 
We support the use of “Controllable Dispatch” and other technological means of managing 
outages or derates of either a Data Center or its associated generation facility. Commission 
consideration in this or another proceeding of policy guidelines for applications of “Controllable 

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
- 12 - 
 
Dispatch” to Data Centers and co-located generation facilities could be beneficial, which would 
give Data Center developers, owners, and customers an opportunity to discuss how and to what 
extent the Data Center’s “Controllable Dispatch” system could be connected to, and utilized to 
notify, the local utility or other grid operator in real-time if and when such outages or derates occur. 
 
25. Eighth, load and hybrid facilities should be responsible for 100% of the network 
upgrades that they are assigned through the interconnection studies. We seek 
comment on whether such costs should be offset through a crediting mechanism 
and, if so, over how many years. 
 
IECA Comments on 8th Principle for Reform. 
 
As noted above in our comments, we support requiring load and hybrid facilities, including 
any associated electric generating facilities not sharing an interconnection point with its associated 
Data Center, to bear all the costs of network upgrades required for their interconnection(s) and we 
support offsetting such costs through a crediting mechanism as is applicable under the 
Commissions interconnection rules applicable to generators. 
 
In addition, we submit that to the extent that any new, expanded, or upgraded generation 
facility is brought to the grid by or with a Data Center, if that generation facility provides benefits 
to the grid, those benefits could be financially recognized as offsets to other interconnection costs. 
 
26. Ninth, to the extent the interconnection customer is not the transmission owner, 
the interconnection customer shall be afforded the same (or equivalent) option to 
build as currently provided to generator interconnection customers. 
 
IECA Comments on 9th Principle for Reform. 
 
We do not object to this concept. 
 
27. Tenth, an existing generating facility that seeks to enter a partial suspension to 
serve a new load at the same location must go through a system support resource 
(SSR)/reliability must run (RMR) type study. The study must consider system 
conditions, including forecasted load growth, at least three years after the proposed 
suspension date. The partial suspension can only proceed after any network 
upgrades needed to ensure reliability are placed into service. Any such network 
upgrades shall be the responsibility of the generating facility. We invite comments 
on whether and how resource adequacy should be considered in the SSR/RMR type 
study. 
 
IECA Comments on 10th Principle for Reform. 
 
The IECA offers no initial comments on this 10th Principle for Reform, but we reserve the 
right to submit a response in any Reply Comments the IECA may submit in this proceeding, which 
are due on or before December 5, 2025. 
 

--- PAGE 13 ---
 
- 13 - 
 
28. Eleventh, utilities serving large loads, including those at hybrid facilities, 
should be responsible for transmission service based on their withdrawal rights, as 
that value amount reflects the quantity of capacity and energy that is being 
transmitted across the transmission system to the load. 
 
IECA Comments on 11th Principle for Reform. 
 
The IECA offers no initial comments on this 11th Principle for Reform, but we reserve the 
right to submit a response in any Reply Comments the IECA may submit in this proceeding, which 
are due on or before December 5, 2025. 
 
29. Twelfth, utilities serving large loads, including those at hybrid facilities, should 
be responsible for ancillary services based on peak demand, without consideration 
of any co-located generation. Any co-located generating facilities will similarly be 
fully compensated for the provision of ancillary services. 
 
IECA Comments on 12th Principle for Reform. 
 
The IECA offers no initial comments on this 12th Principle for Reform, but we reserve the 
right to submit a response in any Reply Comments the IECA may submit in this proceeding, which 
are due on or before December 5, 2025. 
 
30. Thirteenth, there must be a plan to implement these proposed reforms. We seek 
comment on appropriate transition plans, including the treatment of large load 
interconnections that are already being studied for interconnection. 
 
IECA Comments on 13th Principle for Reform. 
 
Regarding “the treatment of large load interconnections that are already being studied for 
interconnection,” we acknowledge that application of any new Commission rules for such an 
interconnection could be challenging.  
 
Perhaps the applicant seeking authorization could be offered the choice of whether to 
proceed under its existing process or under the Commission’s new interconnection process for 
large loads interconnecting to the interstate transmission system. Recognizing that the 
interconnection procedures work well in some areas of the U.S. and not so well in other regions, 
we suggest that any load interconnection program that the Commission may introduce should not 
be mandatory across the entirety of the U.S., i.e., a one-size-fits-all approach is not the best way 
forward. 
 
31. Fourteenth, utilities serving large loads must meet all applicable NERC 
reliability standards and OATT provisions. Utilities and we must be prepared to 
revise large load interconnection procedures and agreements, as necessary. NERC 
should review its reliability standards to determine if new registration categories or 
new or modified reliability standards are required to ensure reliability of the BES. 
 

--- PAGE 14 ---
 
- 14 - 
 
IECA Comments on 14th Principle for Reform. 
We fully support NERC in its efforts to protect the bulk electric system and we suggest 
that this inquiry relates to our comments on the 2nd Principle for Reform noted above. The grid 
impacts of a 20 MW load and an associated 20 MW generator (i.e., whether hybrid, co-located, or 
contractually associated by a PPA or other agreement) are not likely to have much of an impact on 
the grid reliability issues addressed by NERC. We defer to NERC on issues regarding the reliability 
of the bulk electric system and look forward to its comments, if any, in this proceeding regarding 
the size of a Data Center and any associated generator that would lead to reliability concerns, 
particularly with respect to circumstances in which an outage of either the Data Center or the 
generator could have significant reliability effects on the rest of the grid. 
IV. 
CONCLUSION 
 
The IECA appreciates the opportunity to submit these comments to the Commission. We 
welcome the opportunity to review initial comments filed by others in this proceeding and look 
forward to submitting reply comments to the Commission on December 5, 2025.  
 
Please do not hesitate to contact the undersigned with any questions regarding this filing. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CREDIT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
/s/ Phillip G. Lookadoo__  
 
Jeremy Weinstein, Esq. 
 
 
Phillip G. Lookadoo, Esq. 
Law Offices of Jeremy Weinstein, PC 
Christian A. Nunez, Esq. 
1512 Bonanza Street  
 
 
Haynes and Boone, LLP 
Walnut Creek, CA 94596 
 
 
888 16th Street, NW, Ste 300 
925-943-2708  
 
 
 
Washington, DC 20006 
jweinstein@jweinsteinlaw.com 
 
(202) 654-4510 
Phil.lookadoo@haynesboone.com 
 
Its Attorneys 
 
 
November 21, 2025 
